Abhilash Reddy

Python Developer

abhilashr1408@gmail.com |

Summary:

-   Over 5 years of experience as a Python Developer with a deep
    understanding of technology trends with expertise in the core of
    complex technologies.

-   Experienced with Django, a high-level Python Web framework.

-   Proficient in Front end development experience using HTML, XML, CSS,
    and jQuery, JSON, JavaScript, CSS and Bootstrap.

-   Experience in developing web-based applications using Python, Django
    Angular.js, VB, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and jQuery.

-   Experienced with full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC),
    architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming,
    database design and agile methodologies.

-   Experience in project deployment using Jenkins and using web
    services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2 and AWS S3.

-   Experience configuring and developing with different Database
    servers including MySQL, MSSQL, Oracle and Mongo DB.

-   Experience in working on Application Servers like WebSphere,
    WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache Server, NGINX and
    Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse,
    MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.

-   Strong Knowledge of web application security and access control.

-   Experience with Web Development, Web Services, Python and the Django
    framework.

-   Excellent written and oral communication skills with
    results-oriented attitude.

-   Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability
    to build and manage a team and work individually.

-   Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development
    Environments like PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder and Sublime Text.

-   Excellent debugging, problem solving, optimization and testing
    skills.

Technical Skills:

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Programming Languages  Python, Java, Shell Scripting, Django
  ---------------------- ------------------------------------------------
  Web Technologies       HTML, CSS, XML, DOM, AJAX, jQuery, JSON and CSS
                         Bootstrap.

  Python Libraries       Python, Django, Flask, Beautiful Soup, HTML/CSS,
                         Bootstrap, jQuery, NumPy

  Webserver              Apache HTTP webserver, WebLogic, WebSphere,
                         JBoss and Apache Tomcat

  IDE                    Eclipse, Webstorm, Sublime Text, Brackets,
                         PyCharm, Pystudio, Pyscripter.

  Cloud Computing        AWS EC2, S3, RDS (MY SQL), SQS

  J2EE                   JDBC, JNDI, JSP and servlets

  Databases              MySQL, SQLite, Cassandra, Redis and mongo DB

  Operating Systems      Windows, Red Hat Linux, Mac OS
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

Education:

-   Masters in Computer Science from Silicon Valley University.

Professional Experience:

Redwood Credit Union, Santa Rosa, CA

Python Developer | April 2022 – Present

-   Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python,
    Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.

-   Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment
    and familiar with all of its commands.

-   Utilized Python libraries such as NumPy, pandas and matplotlib to
    read data from csv files aggregate and update data.

-   Implemented REST API's in Python using micro-framework like Flask
    with SQL Alchemy in the backend for management of data center
    resources on which OpenStack deployed.

-   Analyzed and Designed application and created UI using JavaScript
    and HTML. Implemented business logic using Python/Django.

-   Created most important Business Rules, which are useful for the
    scope of project, and needs of customers.

-   Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using
    python-twitter library.

-   Used Python and Django for creating graphics, XML processing, data
    exchange and business logic implementation.

-   Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and
    methodology of the code

-   Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of
    project.

-   Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using
    Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.

-   Design and maintain databases using Python and
    developed Python-based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask and
    Postgre SQL.

-   Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.

-   Used Python IDE PyCharm for developing the code and performing unit
    test.

-   Develop entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django
    Web Framework.

-   Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis and added support for
    open stock.

Environment: Python, Django, Flask, HTML, NumPy, PyCharm, SVN, UNIX,
T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, RESTful, Amazon
BotoPil, AWS S3, PostgreSQL, Windows

OpenXcell, Las Vegas, NV

Python Developer | December 2020 – March 2022

-   Used REST based Microservices with REST template based on RESTful
    APIs and designed, developed the UI for the client websites by using
    HTML, CSS, and jQuery.

-   Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the
    components, subcomponents using Python and developing a set of
    library functions over the system based on the user needs.

-   Development of XMLs for several components which maintains data for
    several registers

-   Development of data structures, XML parsing using Python.

-   Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using
    Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.

-   Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of
    projects.

-   Creating Python based micro services and refactoring/enhancing
    existing services.

-   Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver a
    certain format of data.

-   Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes
    of the two main applications that were a main source of data for
    both customers and internal customer service team.

-   For the manipulation of data from the database, various queries
    using SQL were written and created a database using MySQL.

-   Worked on developing internal testing tools, which were written in
    Python. Worked on Libraries like Pandas for data manipulation and
    analysis.

-   Used Django framework for application development. Excellent
    knowledge with distributed storages (HDFS) and distributed
    processing.

Environment: Python, Django Web Framework, Linux, HTML, XML, JavaScript,
jQuery, MySQL, Jenkins

Chetu, Inc., Sunrise, FL

Python Developer | January 2019 - November 2020

-   Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design,
    development, testing and deployment.

-   Involved in developing web applications and implementing Model View
    Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications
    like Django.

-   Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python to view
    performance.

-   Developed and evaluated technology alternatives for resolving
    customer business problems.

-   Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage
    and fast access.

-   Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django
    Web Framework.

-   Used Python libraries and SQL queries/subqueries to create several
    datasets, which produced statistics, tables, charts and graphs.

-   Drafted detailed design objectives and developed architectural and
    system design documents.

-   Developed user interface of the web application using HTML, CSS.
    Wrote custom user defined functions in JavaScript to validate
    application functionalities/features.

-   Involved in building database Model, APIs, and Views
    utilizing Python technologies to build web-based applications.

-   Developed user interface solutions using a Django web framework.
    Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate
    files.

-   Designed UNIX Scripts to automate the verification of the
    information inserted in the database.

Environment: Python, Django, Pandas, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AWS, jQuery,
AJAX, SQL, UNIX and Windows

Appinventiv Technology Pvt. Ltd., New York, NY

Software Developer (Python) | September 2016 - December 2018

-   Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users. Used
    Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange
    and business logic implementation.

-   Organized Python code including documentation of scripts.

-   Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.

-   Wrote Automation test cases using Selenium WebDriver using Python
    API.

-   Used the Django Framework to develop the application.

-   Implemented web applications in Flask and spring frameworks.

-   Used the latest Video Conference Applications and worked extensively
    on them. Data mapping, logical data modelling, created class
    diagrams and ER diagrams and used SQL queries to filter data within
    the Oracle database.

-   Updated and manipulated content and files by using Python scripts.

-   Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage
    the storage and deletion of content.

-   Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application
    testing using Spec.

-   Worked on Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure with automation
    and configuration management. 

-   Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility
    of the website. Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load
    data into MySQL database.

Environment: Python, Django, AWS, Flask, API, SQL, Selenium WebDriver,
Oracle, XML, SQL
