Bhavitha

Python Developer

Email: bhavitha0747@gmail.com

Ph #: ‪256-684-8375‬

Professional Summary:

-   3 years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management,
    and Implementation of various standalone and client - server
    architecture-based enterprise application software.

-   Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting
    scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, database design and
    agile methodologies.

-   Expertise in development of web - based applications using Python,
    Django, Flask, HTML, XML, Angular, Angular.JS, CSS, DHTML, JSON and
    jQuery.

-   Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for
    web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.

-   Experience with cloud infrastructure of AWS (Amazon Web Services)
    and computing AMI virtual machines on Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2).

-   Experience configuring and developing with different Database
    servers including MySQL, MSSQL, Oracle and Mongo Db.

-   Expertise in test automation and continuous delivery of web
    applications, client server applications, web services/REST APIs
    Testing, with Python.

-   Experience in developing web services (WSDL, SOAP and REST) and
    consuming web services with python programming language.

-   Expertise to interact with databases using ORM frameworks like
    Django, SQLAlchemy frameworks.

-   Utilized various integrated development environments like Visual
    Studio Code and PyCharm.

-   Experience in using defect tracking/issue tracking/ Bug tracking
    tool like Atlassian Jira.

-   Possess good interpersonal, analytical presentation skills, ability
    to work in self-managed and Team environments.

Technical Skills:

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Languages          Python 3.X/2.7, SQL, Shell Scripting
  ------------------ ----------------------------------------------------
  Web Technologies   AJAX, JSON, jQuery, HTML, XML, CSS, Bootstrap

  Framework          Django, Flask, Web2py, Pyramid, Angular

  Web Services       SOAP, RESTful

  Cloud Platforms    Amazon web services

  IDES/Tools         PyCharm, Sublime Text, Spyder, NetBeans, Eclipse

  Application/Web    Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, BEA WebLogic, Nginix
  Servers            

  Database           Oracle, DB2, MYSQL, MongoDB

  Version Control    Git, GitHub
  Systems            

  Project Management Jira, HP ALM
  Tools              

  Operating Systems  Windows, iOS, Android
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

Professional Experience:

Client: Lands' End, Dodgeville, WI Jan 2021 – Till Date

Role: Python Developer

Responsibilities:

-   Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and
    testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used
    agile methodology for developing application.

-   Designed and managed API system deployment using fast HTTP server
    and Amazon AWS architecture. Utilized Python Libraries like Boto3,
    NumPy for AWS.

-   Responsible for developing impressive UI using HTML, jQuery, CSS,
    Angular and Bootstrap.

-   Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller
    and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.

-   Used Python Library Beautiful Soup 4 for Web Scraping to extract
    data for building graphs.

-   Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality
    such as selection criteria, created test harness to enable
    comprehensive testing utilizing Python.

-   Used Python-distributions like PyMySQL to connect with the databases
    and manipulate data in python language.

-   Involved in Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD)
    process implementation using Jenkins along with Shell script.

-   Used GitHub for Python source code version control, Jenkins for
    automating the build Docker containers.

-   Utilized PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python
    applications and used Django Database API's to access database
    objects.

-   Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of
    various design patterns.

-   Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile
    methodology.

Environment: Python, Django, Angular, TypeScript, Angular CLI, NPM, Node
JS, AWS, Boto 3, Beautiful Soup 4, HTTP, PyQT, XML, MySQL, Jenkins, GIT,
Jira, Agile, Windows.

Company: TechDimension IT Solutions, Hyderabad, India Jun 2019 – Nov
2020

Role: Python Developer

Responsibilities:

-   Involved in all phases of software development life cycle for the
    case assignment and case management modules.

-   Developed frontend and backend modules using Python on Django
    including TastyPie Web Framework using Git.

-   Implemented various functions in NumPy and Pandas for mathematical
    operations and arrays.

-   Configured AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Groups and Users
    for improved login authentication.

-   Designed the application using Python, Django, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON
    and jQuery. Worked on backend of the application.

-   Developing the Python automated scripting using Boto3 library for
    AWS Security audit and reporting using AWS Lambda for multiple AWS
    Accounts.

-   Used Python to write data into JSON files for testing Django
    Websites. Created scripts for data modelling and data import and
    export.

-   Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and
    getting data from the external interface in the XML format.

-   Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer information
    and add, delete, update customer records and PyQuery for selecting
    particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.

-   Used Jenkins for continuous integration and deployment. Managed
    continuous maintenance and troubleshooting of the Project.

-   Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking and used Agile
    Methodology and SCRUM Process.

-   Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.

Environment: Python, Django, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, AWS, Boto3, XML,
JSON, PyQt, PyQuery, Jenkins, Jira, GIT, Agile, Windows.
