Induja S

Python Developer | Permanent Resident

Email: indujas2610@gmail.com | Ph #: 732-823-9544

PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY:

-   6 years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management,
    and Implementation of various standalone and client - server
    architecture-based enterprise application software.

-   Extensive Experience with Agile with SCRUM, Waterfall Model and
    Test-driven development methodologies

-   Expertise in development of web-based applications using Python,
    Django, HTML5, Angular 10, XML, CSS3, DHTML, JSON and JQuery.

-   Expertise in AWS Resources like EC2, S3, EBS, VPC, ELB, AMI, SNS,
    RDS, IAM, Route 53, Auto scaling, Cloud Formation, Cloud Watch,
    Security Groups.

-   Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming
    language and good knowledge of Web Services with protocols SOAP,
    REST.

-   Mastering in implementing MVC architecture using Django for
    web-based applications in OOP concepts like Multi-Threading,
    Exception Handling and Collections.

-   Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm,
    PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio and PyDev.

-   Expertise in establishing database connections for Python by
    configuring packages like MySQL-Python.

-   Proficient in using different version control systems like GIT,
    GitHub, & SVN.

-   Well versed with automation tools like Jenkins for continuous
    integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) and to implement the
    End-to-End Automation.

-   Experience customizing JIRA projects with various schemas, complex
    workflows, screen schemes, permission schemes, and notification
    schemes.

-   Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills with efficient time
    management and result oriented attitude.

TECHNICAL SKILLS:

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Programming       Python, SQL
  Languages         
  ----------------- -----------------------------------------------------
  Python Web        Django, Flask

  Web Technologies  Angular 10

  Cloud             AWS, S3, EC2
  Technologies      

  DATABASES         MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite, MS SQL, Oracle and MongoDB

  IDE’s             Visual Studio Code, PyCharm, Eclipse, Sublime text

  Testing           PyTest, Junit, JTest
  Frameworks        

  Bug Tracking      JIRA, ALM
  Tools             

  Operating System  Windows, iOS, Android
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE:

Client: Progressive Insurance, Cleveland, OH Sep 2021 – Till Date

Role: Python Developer

Responsibilities:

-   Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of
    Test-Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in
    line with Agile Software Methodology principles.

-   Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS3,
    HTML5, Angular 10.

-   Involved in writing Python utilities and scripts to automate tasks
    in AWS using boto3 and AWS SDK.

-   Designed and implemented Continuous Integration and Continuous
    Deployment frameworks from code to deploy using Jenkins.

-   Used Git version control system for collaborating with teammates and
    maintaining code versions

-   Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using
    Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.

-   Participated in bug thrashing sessions with SQA team to discuss and
    resolve bugs reported in JIRA.

Environment: Python, Django, Boto3, HTML5, Bootstrap, Angular 10, AWS,
Rest API, Mongo DB, Jenkins, GIT, JIRA, MYSQL, Agile, Windows.

Client: Valley National Bank, Wayne, NJ Oct 2019 – Aug 2021

Role: Python Developer

Responsibilities:

-   Followed Agile Methodology – Involved in Complete life cycle of
    Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).

-   Automated backups using AWS SDK (boto3) to transfer data into S3
    buckets.

-   Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying the
    test block documentation and other features of python code using a
    web Django browser.

-   Worked on Python Open stack API's and was involved in writing Shell
    scripts to automate Web Sphere Admin tasks and application specific
    syncs / backups and other schedulers.

-   Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into
    HTTP-serializable JSON strings.

-   Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using
    Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.

-   Worked on python modules such as requests, urllib2 for web crawling
    and even used PyUnit, for Python unit test framework.

-   Created Local Virtual repositories for the project and release
    builds, repository management in Maven to share snapshots.

-   Embedded automated build system, Jenkins to save built into
    repository.

-   Organized the configurations and versions of the code using GIT
    version control system.

-   Logged user stories and acceptance criteria in JIRA for features by
    evaluating output requirements and formats.

Environment: Python, Django, AWS, Boto3, Shell Script, XML, Angular,
HTML5, PyUnit, Maven, Jenkins, Jira, MySQL, Agile, GIT, Windows.

Client: Dollar Tree, Chesapeake, VA Feb 2018 – Sep 2019

Role: Python Developer

Responsibilities:

-   Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of
    Test-Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in
    line with Agile Software Methodology principles.

-   Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller
    and templating language to create a user-friendly Website interface.

-   Involved in Python OOD code for Logging, Monitoring and Debugging
    for code optimization.

-   Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for
    selected options.

-   Worked on building out, page views, templates, and CSS layouts for
    the complete site within the Django framework.

-   Designed and implemented several Maven plug-ins for simplifying
    common configuration management tasks and Used Git as the
    repository.

-   Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking and added several
    options to the application to choose particular algorithm for data
    and address generation.

Environment: Python, Django, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, GIT, JIRA, Agile,
Windows.

Client: Selective Insurance, Branchville, NJ Aug 2016 – Jan 2018

Role: Python Developer

Responsibilities:

-   Coded model level validation and provide guidance in making long
    term architectural design decisions and also used Agile Methodology
    and SCRUM process.

-   Utilized the existing Python and Django modules and rewritten to
    deliver data in required formats.

-   Built database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, to build an
    interactive web-based solution.

-   Worked on object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python.

-   Designed Django REST web services using Python and Django to get and
    post data.

-   Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing of
    documents, data exchange and business logic implementation between
    servers.

-   Handled exceptions and used-test cases by writing python-scripts to
    refrain website from rendering Error codes.

-   Using Gitlab for continuous integration and deployment and Git
    version control system for collaborating with teammates and
    maintaining code versions.

-   Logged user stories and acceptance criteria in JIRA for features by
    evaluating output requirements and formats

Environment: Python, Django, HTML5, CSS3, Oracle, Git, Jira, Agile,
Windows.

Education:

Bachelors in Technology from Amrita Institute of Technology India May
2008
