Jigar Sanjay

Python Developer | Green Card

jigar3480@gmail.com | (573) 677-1473‬

PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY:

-   IT professional with 5 years of experience as a Web Application
    Developer and coding using Python, Django.

-   Experienced with Django, a high-level Python Web framework.

-   Proficient in Front end development experience using HTML, XML, CSS,
    and jQuery, JSON, JavaScript, CSS and Bootstrap.

-   Experience in developing web-based applications using Python, Django
    Angular.js, VB, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and jQuery.

-   Experienced with full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC),
    architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming,
    database design and agile methodologies.

-   Experience in working on Application Servers like WebSphere,
    WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache Server, NGINX and
    Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse,
    MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.

-   Experience configuring and developing with different Database
    servers including MySQL, MSSQL, Oracle and Mongo DB.

-   Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability
    to build and manage a team and work individually.

-   Strong Knowledge of web application security and access control.

-   Experience in project deployment using Jenkins and using web
    services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2 and AWS S3.

-   Experience with Web Development, Web Services, Python and the Django
    framework.

-   Excellent debugging, problem solving, optimization and testing
    skills.

-   Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development
    Environments like PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder and Sublime Text.

-   Excellent written and oral communication skills with
    results-oriented attitude.

TECHNICAL SKILLS:

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Programming          Python, Java, Shell Scripting, Django
  Languages            
  -------------------- --------------------------------------------------
  Web Technologies     HTML, CSS, XML, DOM, AJAX, jQuery, JSON and CSS
                       Bootstrap.

  Python Libraries     Python, Django, Flask, Beautiful Soup, HTML/CSS,
                       Bootstrap, jQuery, NumPy

  Webserver            Apache HTTP webserver, WebLogic, WebSphere, JBoss
                       and Apache Tomcat

  IDE                  Eclipse, Webstorm, Sublime Text, Brackets,
                       PyCharm, Pystudio, Pyscripter.

  Cloud Computing      AWS EC2, S3, RDS (MY SQL), SQS

  J2EE                 JDBC, JNDI, JSP and servlets

  Databases            MySQL, SQLite, Cassandra, Redis and mongo DB

  Operating Systems    Windows, Red Hat Linux, Mac OS

  Other Tools          Bugzilla, Jasmine, Pyunit, JIRA, Junit, Git, SVN,
                       CVS
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

EDUCATION:

-   Bachelor of Computer Application from Veer Narmad South Gujarat
    University, India.

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE:

Kestra Financial, Austin, TX | May 2021 - Current | Python Developer

-   Utilized Python libraries such as NumPy, pandas and matplotlib to
    read data from csv files aggregate and update data.

-   Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using
    Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.

-   Analyzed and Designed application and created UI using JavaScript
    and HTML. Implemented business logic using Python/Django.

-   Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python,
    Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.

-   Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment
    and familiar with all of its commands.

-   Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of
    project.

-   Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes
    of the two main applications that were a

-   Used Python and Django for creating graphics, XML processing, data
    exchange and business logic implementation.

-   Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and
    methodology of the code

-   Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.

-   Used Python IDE PyCharm for developing the code and performing unit
    test.

-   Develop entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django
    Web Framework.

-   Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis and added support for
    open stock.

-   Created most important Business Rules, which are useful for the
    scope of project, and needs of customers.

-   Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using
    python-twitter library.

-   Design and maintain databases using Python and
    developed Python-based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask and
    Postgre SQL.

Environment: Python, Django, Flask, HTML, NumPy, PyCharm, SVN, UNIX,
T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, RESTful, Amazon
BotoPil, AWS S3, PostgreSQL, Windows

SumatoSoft, Boston, MA | Jul 2019 – Apr 2021 | Python Developer

-   Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design,
    development, testing and deployment.

-   Involved in developing web applications and implementing Model View
    Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications
    like Django.

-   Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python to view
    performance.

-   Used Python libraries and SQL queries/subqueries to create several
    datasets, which produced statistics, tables, charts and graphs.

-   Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django
    Web Framework.

-   Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format
    for local timestamp data manipulation and retrieval and storing it
    into MongoDB.

-   Wrote code to support model-view-controller (MVC) pattern of Python
    Django framework in developing several modules for the application.

-   Used data types like dictionaries, tuples and object-oriented
    concepts-based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of
    networks.

-   Developed user interface of the web application using HTML, CSS.
    Wrote custom user defined functions in JavaScript to validate
    application functionalities/features.

-   Designed UNIX Scripts to automate the verification of the
    information inserted in the database.

-   Involved in building database Model, APIs, and Views
    utilizing Python technologies to build web-based applications.

-   Developed user interface solutions using a Django web framework.
    Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate
    files.

Environment: Python, Django, Pandas, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PyUnit,
PyQt, PyQuery, jQuery, AJAX, SQL, UNIX and Windows.

AJM Softwares, India | Feb 2017 – June 2019 | Programmer

-   Supporting users on issues via tickets and documenting all
    issues/incidents on a day-to-day basis.

-   Developed and evaluated technology alternatives for resolving
    customer business problems.

-   Upgraded the entire code base of RBM product from Oracle version 11g
    to version 12c.

-   Fixed bugs using gdb and refactored code. Added automated unit tests
    using scripting languages.

-   Developed various features to meet the client requirements for
    modules such as BG, which is the core module of the product, which
    included gathering, analyzing and evaluating data to reach viable
    conclusions.

-   Task ownership throughout requirements software design, development,
    testing and release.

-   Demonstrated ability to troubleshoot the most difficult technical
    issues using debugging techniques.

-   Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask
    framework.

-   Developed a web application to check the status of servers using
    python and flask

-   Instrumented and modified unit and integration tests to improve
    software quality and reliability.

-   Drafted detailed design objectives and developed architectural and
    system design documents.

-   Worked with QA testers for end-to-end unit testing and
    post-production testing in a collaborative team environment.

Environment: Python, Flask, JavaScript, HTML, XML, GIT, Struts, Tomcat,
Oracle, Windows.
