Erkin Kholmatov Email: kholmatov.me@gmail.com
Location: Dallas, TX - Green Card holder Github: kholmatov
LinkedIn: kholmatov Mobile: (469) 781-8993
Experience
•EPG Service Moscow, Russia (remote)
Lead Backend Developer Jun. 2020 - Present
AWS Yandex.Cloud ElasticSearch LogStash Docker Kubernetes CI/CD PostgreSQL Python 3 asyncio aiohttp
◦Designed and developed the new asynchronous architecture which increased the number of simultaneously working scrapers
by 50 times
◦Designed and implemented the workflow for finding errors and anomalies in the scrapers functionality that works several times
faster than a human observer and provides their timely elimination
•BartSoft Mississauga, Canada (remote)
Senior Backend Developer Jan. 2016 - May. 2020
AWS Python Java JavaScript PHP Zend Yii MySQL nginx
◦Developed and maintained backend functionality for multiple websites, web and mobile applications
◦Setup, maintained, developed custom modules for different CMS (Joomla, WordPress)
◦Maintained and modified custom made CRM system for online tutoring platform that includes billing, reports, students
and tutors management
•LazyDad Moscow, Russia
Co-founder & Senior Fullstack Developer Feb. 2017 - Feb. 2020
Java Android SDK Twilio Firebase Google Maps Codeigniter MySQL MongoDB
◦Developed the mobile application for food delivery from the closest markets
◦Maintained admin dashboard for order management
•Livovo Moscow, Russia
Co-founder & Fullstack Developer Apr. 2012 - Dec. 2015
ActiveCloud PHP Yii 1 MySQL nginx
◦Developed the service for contextual advertising automation
Lecturer
•Lecturer at Tajik State University of Law, Business and Politics Khujand, Tajikistan
Teacher at Programming and Computer Science Course Sep. 2006 - Dec. 2010
C++ PHP SQL HTML CSS
◦Designed, developed and offered the series of lectures and learning materials for Basic Programming and Computer Science course
(C++, PHP, HTML, CSS)
Volunteer Teaching Experience
•Founder of IT Community of Tajikistan at Telegram
Popularization of IT among the population, holding IT events and different online streams with experts Jan. 2020 - Present
•IT mentor at Technovation Girls
Training girls in programming, planning development stages, creating application prototypes, testing and bug fixing Feb. 2019 - Present
•Software Developer at Makeathon ”TOM: Almaty, 2019”
Created an application for the disabled with real-time GPS tracking and SOS alarm button Jun. 2019 - Jun. 2019
•Algorithms and Data Structures Club Mentor
Developed a free lectures and practice classes on algorithms and data structures and Python for school students Mar. 2016 - Present
Programming Skills
•Languages : Python, Java, PHP, C++, JavaScript
•Technologies : SQL, Git, Docker, Kubernetes, CI/CD, asyncio, aiohttp, ElasticSearch
•Frameworks : Yii, Zend, Codeigniter, Android SDK
•Knowledge : Algorithms, Data Structures, Distributed Systems
Education
•Tajik State University of Law, Business and Politics Khujand, Tajikistan
Bachelor degree in Information Systems in Economics with distinction, GPA: 5.0 of 5.0 Sep. 2001 - Jun. 2006