Remston Dsa Email : rd2995@nyu.edu
Linkedin: www.linkedin.com/in/remston-dsa/ Github: github.com/remston-dsa
Education
•New York University New York, USA
M.S in Computer Science; CGPA 3.8/4 Sep. 2021 - May 2023
•University of Mumbai Mumbai, India
B.E in Computer Science; CGPA 4/4 Aug. 2017 - Jul. 2021
Experience
•Graduate Adjunct. Faculty at NYU Courant New York, USA
Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences Jan. 2022 - Present
◦Lab Sessions on Intro. to Fluid Dynamics : Conducted lab sessions on Numerical computations and analysis
using pandas, NumPy, and matplotlib on Laminar and Turbulent Flows in Fluids for a class of 13 students.
◦Workshops on Blockchain : Worked with NYU CUSP students on building Bitcoin with Python, created
ERC-721, ERC-1155, and ERC-20 tokens on Ethereum testnets, and taught classes on Solidity Attacks and Web3.
◦Automation in Tagging using OCR : Pytesseract OCR was used on scanned documents to automate the
digitization and tagging of invoices and accounts payables and receivables, saving two months in delivery time.
•Software Developer Internship Mumbai, India
MavenAI Technologies Pvt. Ltd. Jun 2021 - Sep 2021
◦ERC standards : Created Fungible and Non-Fungible crypto tokens using the ERC-20 and ERC-721 standards
respectively, and deployed them on Ethereum’s Rinkeby testnet, Polygon’s Mumbai testnet, Binance’s BSC testnet
◦Dapp : Built a web-app for P2P payment and decentralized file-storage using Reactjs, Pinata-IPFS, web3js,
Hardhat, onion protocol, Dai smart-contract and sqlite3(to save 256 bit hash value).
◦New Features : Added features on ERC token standards like Flash Minting, Snapshots, Pausable, Burnable,
Mintable, and Votes.
•Python Developer Internship Mumbai, India
Thatascience Pvt. Ltd. Jun 2021 - Sep 2021
◦Webscraping : Built a Topic Explorer web app using streamlit for Frontend, BeautifulSoup for web-scraping,
Sqlite3 for database management, google-SEO for the SEO Research team, and AWS-EC2 for hosting on Cloud.
◦ML model : Implemented Facebook’s Prophet model in the CRAN package to predict stock prices using Yahoo
Finance API’s historical dataset and optimize the prediction using the cross-validation function.
◦Computer Vision : Implemented Object Detection and Recognition using Yolov3 and Yolov4 algorithms with
Yolov4 having an improvement in the mean average precision(mAP) by as much as 10% and the number of frames
per second by 12% compared to Yolov3.
PROJECTS
•SOKOBAN Game with AI implementation :
◦Sokoban Framework : Built a Sokoban game where the player has to solve each level by pushing the crates to
their respective goals bypassing all the obstacles.
◦AI Algorithms : The path is identified using AI search algorithms with an accuracy of 90% for BFS, 67% for DFS,
99% for A*, 71% for Hill Climber, 88% for Genetic, and 67% for MCTS.
◦Tools and Technologies : HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Python, NumPy, AI Search algorithms.
•House Price Prediction with Supervised Learning :
◦Data Wrangling : Performed Data Cleaning, Exploratory Data Analysis, Correlation, and Feature Engineering on
the Kaggle dataset for homes in Ames, Iowa.
◦Supervised Learning : Decision tree, Random Forest, and Gradient Boosting(Best fit model) has respective
NRMSE score of -0.205, -0.144, and -0.126 with corresponding training time of 2s, 75s, and 196s.
◦Tools and Technologies : Python, Pandas, NumPy, Scikit Learn, Seaborn, Google colab.
Programming Skills
•Skills : MS. Suite, Notion, Google SEO, Python, NumPy, Pandas, Matplotlib, Flask, Postgresql, Django,
AWS, Heroku, AI, ML, NLP, Keras, Pytorch, Tensorflow, HTML, CSS, Javascript, Reactjs, Expressjs,
Blockchain, Solidity, cryptocurrency, web3, Hardhat, Truffle, C++, Java, Docker, Kubernetes, MongoDB