Rushi Bhatt

Contact- +1 (732) 659-0074

Email- rushi.barot1240@gmail.com

Java Full Stack Developer

PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY

-   Around 6+ years of extensive professional experience as a Java Full
    Stack Developer with expertise in Web- Designing, User Interface
    development, integrating, implementing of highly transactional and
    scalable web applications using web technologies like Angular, Node
    JS, React JS, HTML, CSS, Ajax.

-   Excellent knowledge of all the phases of Software Development Life
    Cycle (Requirements gathering, analysis, design, development,
    testing and implementation) and SDLC methodologies such as
    Agile/scrum, Waterfall model, Test Driven Development (TDD) and
    Iterative Development.

-   Extensive experience in designing professional UI web applications
    using front-end technologies like HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, JavaScript,
    XML, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Angular/2/4/6/8/9, Node.js.

-   Hands on experience with Java, J2EE, Web services, JSP, Servlets.

-   Expertise in working with various Amazon Web Services (AWS) like
    Elastic Container Service (ECS) & Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2),
    Simple Storage Service (S3), Lambda implementation, AWS CLI.

-   Experience in working with Javascript libraries like Angular JS,
    JQuery, Node JS, Lodash Js, underscore JS, BackboneJS, and ExtJS.

-   Experience in cloud platform technologies such as AWS Web Services,
    Heroku, OpenShift, Cloud Foundry

-   Hands on experience in developing web application using Spring
    Framework web module and integration with Struts MVC framework,
    Microservices.

-   Expertise in client scripting language and server-side scripting
    languages like JavaScript, jQuery and Angular.js.

-   Experience in applying the latest development approaches including
    MVC, event-driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented
    JavaScript, XML and Responsive Web Design.

-   Extensive experience in various UI widgets using JavaScript
    libraries (JQuery)

-   Expertise in building strong websites using JQuery, HTML5, DHTML &
    CSS3 to develop valid code and table-free sties.

-   Hands on experience in AWS infrastructure on various resources IAM,
    EBS, Security Group and Auto Scaling in Cloud Formation JSON
    templates and some internet technologies including TCP/IP and HTTP.

TECHNICAL SKILLS:

-   Web development: JavaScript, ES6, Angular, ReactJS, NodeJS, Spring,
    HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Angular Material, Vue.js

-   Languages/Utilities Java, PL/SQL, XML and UML.

-   JAVA Technologies Core Java, Multithreading, JDBC, JNDI, Java beans,
    J2EE, Junit, Maven,

-   Mockito, Ant, Log4j.

-   Frame Works Spring 4.x, Spring Boot, Spring Batch Struts 2.0/1.x,
    JSF ,Spring Data JPA, RX Java.

-   Design Patterns JSTL, Singleton, MVC, Business Delegate, DAO, DTO,
    Session Façade.

-   Web Services SOAP & REST.

-   Web Technologies Applets, JSP, HTML5/4, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, AJAX
    and jQuery, Angular 8, React JS

-   Databases MYSQL, Oracle, SQL server, MongoDB.Middleware Servlets,
    Java Beans, RMI, EJB, JMS.

-   IDEs and Tools Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA, Maven, Gradle, UML, Log4j.

-   Version Control Tools Subversion, GitHub.

-   Web/Application Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, JBoss.

-   Methodologies Waterfall, Agile.

-   Operating Systems Windows 7/8/XP, Linux, UNIX.

-   Cloud Technologies AWS Cloud Components S3, EC2, Lambda, Elastic
    Bean Stalk, ECS, RDS.

WORK EXPERIENCE:

AIG., NYC Nov’2020-Presnt

Full Stack Java Developer

Responsibilities:

-   Worked agile software development with Scrum methodology.

-   knowledge of Angular 8/9 commonly used modules and creating reusable
    Components, Pipes and Services.

-   Worked in container-based technologies like Docker, Kubernetes and
    Openshift.

-   Developed web applications running on NodeJS using the Express
    framework, Vue.js and Backbone.js with Mustache.js for front end
    MVC/templating.

-   Developed batch processing applications using spring batch deployed
    on AWS.

-   Worked on AWS Elastic Load Balancing, created EC2 instances, and
    worked on autoscaling the instances.

-   Used CFT templates for creating AWS stack, S3 buckets, Roles, and
    Policies.

-   Worked on CHEF scripts for automation and bootstrapping of
    applications on EC2 instances.

-   Rewrite existing applications and migrated applications and the to
    the AWS cloud as part of the modernization project.

-   Used Git branching strategy and bitbucket for inspection and version
    control maintenance.

-   Followed Agile software development practice paired programming,
    test driven development and scrum status meetings.

-   Used token-based service to authenticate and authorize for native
    mobile application users and Single Sign On.

-   Worked with OpenShift platform in managing Docker containers and
    Kubernetes Clusters.

-   Created Directives, Services, Filters using Angular 8 with
    Typescript.

-   Developed Application to assess JSON and XML from Restful web
    service from consumer side using JavaScript and Angular

-   Usage of version control repository SVN (Subversion by apache),
    JIRA/ Quality Center for ticketing, Wiki for documentation, Jenkins
    for nightly build.

-   The application flow is designed and developed using JDBC, HTML5,
    CSS3 and JavaScript.

-   Developed the Rest APIs by using the springboot with spring tool
    suite IDE

-   Responsible for maintaining 'pom.xml' file in Maven which was shared
    by multiple projects.

-   Used JIRA tool for Issue/bug tracking, monitoring of work assignment
    in the system.

-   Created Server instances on AWS. Tomcat, Swagger and hawtio are
    installed and used for deploying Micro-services.

-   Developed RESTful web services to manipulate data in MySQL.

-   Performed configuration, deployment and support of cloud services
    including Amazon Web Services.

-   Involved in maintaining the user accounts (IAM), RDS, Route 53
    services in AWS Cloud.

-   I have used the docker to deploy services in non-prod environment
    (development environments) and Jenkins for the pre-prod management
    environments.

-   Used SpringBoot with Spring Security for all types of
    authentication.

-   Application was designed and developed using the Spring framework.
    Used Spring Dependency Injection to inject required services.

-   Consumed REST based Microservices with Rest template based on
    RESTful APIs.

Environment: Java/J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, Angular 7/9, Node.js, Responsive
Web Design, jQuery UI, AJAX, XML, JSON, REST, Eclipse, GIT, Agile,
Redux, AWS, ES6/ES5, GIT, Jenkins, Tomcat, Github, Log4j, Swagger,
Postman

Ally Financia, Detroit, Michigan Oct’2018-Oct’2020

Java Developer

Responsibilities:

-   Worked with VUE.JS Forms, Validations, Modules, Components,
    directives, controllers and HTTP Request.

-   Designed GraphQL to build client applications by providing an
    intuitive and flexible syntax and system for describing their data
    requirements and interactions.

-   Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into User
    Requirement Specifications and Functional Requirement Specifications
    for the designers and developers to understand them as per their
    perspective.

-   Participated in Docker and AWS workshops to gain experience with
    emerging technologies.

-   Used Docker containers for eliminating a source of friction between
    development and operations.

-   Worked on analyzing Hadoop cluster using different big data analytic
    tools including Flume, Pig, Hive, HBase, Oozie, Zookeeper, Sqoop,
    Spark and Kafka.

-   Spring Boot Microservices were developed with microservice
    architecture using REST and Apache Kafka.

-   Developing Web pages by using HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript and
    working knowledge of CSS grid system.

-   Agile/SCRUM was used as the project management methodology and JIRA
    & Confluence were the tools used to keep things in check.

-   Performed Restful routing using Node.js which submits my form data
    to the Mongo DB database.

-   Defined text alignment, size, borders, and many other typographic
    GraphQL characteristics.

-   Worked in all the modules of the application which involved
    front-end presentation logic developed using JavaScript.

-   converting Hive/SQL queries into RDD transformations using Apache
    Spark, Scala and Python.

-   Designed and implemented the User Interface using JavaScript, HTML,
    CSS, AJAX, JSON and MySQL.

-   Communicated regularly with the clients and discussed the
    impediments that could come up, and the possible solutions for it.

-   Worked in Cloud computing infrastructure such as Amazon web Services
    (AWS). Worked on EC2 and S3,

-   Worked on Vue.js events distribution and parent chain for
    parent-child component communication.

-   Node JS and used a full complement of Angular JS, Node. js, and
    Mongo DB to store and present assessments.

-   Received appreciation from scrum master for being a good team player
    and demonstrating commendable communication skills.

Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts, Hibernate, Spring, JSP, Servlets, JMS,
XML, SOAP, JDBC, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, HTML5, CSS3, JUnit, WebSphere
Application Server, Oracle, MySQL, Scrum

M&T Bank, Buffalo, New York Feb’2015-Aug’2018

Jr. Web Developer

Responsibilities:

-   Implementing project using Agile SCRUM methodology, involved in
    daily stand-up meetings and sprint showcase, and sprint
    retrospective.

-   Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User
    Interaction screens using HTML, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Angular
    6 and Node JS.

-   Enhanced application performance by Angular 6 Component based
    development in view of future Angular framework transitions.

-   Developed the web tier using JSP, and Spring MVC.

-   Used Spring Framework for the Implementation of the Application.

-   Integrated Spring Dependency Injection (IoC) among different layers
    of an application.

-   Used Hibernate for object Relational Mapping and used JPA for
    annotations.

-   Implemented REST web services using Apache-CXF framework.

-   Involved in creating various Data Access Objects (DAO) for addition,
    modification and deletion of records using various specification
    files.

-   Implemented interface sub classes using lambda expressions.

-   Worked on developing the user interface for internal users with
    Spring MVC, Ajax, jQuery, AngularJS and JSON.

-   Implemented design patterns like Singleton, MVC, DAO Pattern and
    Value Objects/Data Transfer Objects (DTO) to transfer data between
    different tiers of the application to decrease the network traffic
    when invoking remote objects.

-   Involved in writing the web service code to interact with other
    applications.

-   Integration of spring modules with AWS modules in order to consume
    third party services.

-   Deployed the Application in WebSphere server.

-   Designed and developed persistence layer using spring JDBC template.

Environment: J2EE, Java, Servlets, Struts, EJB, SOAP Webservices, JSP,
JDBC, Eclipse, WebSphere, Oracle, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, spring, HTML

EDUCATION:

Bachelor in computer Science, IMET University, India 2014
