Mohammed Shamsi

Sr. Java Developer

shamsimohd06@gmail.com

LinkedIn- https://www.linkedin.com/in/mohammed-shamsi-b89028255/

(771) 333-5000.

PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY

-   Having around 7+ years of Professional experience in IT Industry
      involved in Developing, Implementing and maintenance of various
      web-based applications using Java, J2EE Technologies.

-   Experience in all phases of Software development life cycle (SDLC),
      which includes User Interaction, Requirement gathering, Business
      Analysis/Modeling, Design/Architecture, Development,
      Implementation, Integration, Documentation, Testing and
      Deployment.

-   Experience in working with different SDLC methodologies like
      Waterfall, Agile (TDD, SCRUM).

-   Experienced with J2SE Technologies like API, Threads, Collections,
      and Exception Handling, J2EE Technologies like Servlet, Listener,
      Filter, JSP, Java Security API and JSTL.

-   Expertise in the implementation of Core concepts of Java, J2EE
      Technologies: JSP, Servlets, JSF framework implementation using
      JDBC, Spring, Hibernate,

-   Practical knowledge and expertise working with frameworks like
      Spring Core (DI (IOC)), Spring MVC, Spring Data, Spring Boot,
      Spring Batch, Spring Security, Hibernate.

-   Well versed with consuming and producing Web services like SOA
      Architecture based SOAP (WSDL Component), UDDI and REST working
      with data-exchange formats like PLAIN_TEXT, XML and JSON formats.

-   Working experience of Relational DBMS like MySQL, Oracle SQL
      (PL/SQL), SQL Server (MS SQL), DB2and NoSQL DB like MongoDB.

-   Experience in writing the HTTP RESTful Web services and SOAP API's
      in Golang. 

-   Experience with Tomcat/ WebLogic servers and good understanding of
      J2EE architectures, J2EE technologies. 

-   Experience with amazon web services (AWS) and amazon cloud
      technologies such as Amazon EC2 (virtual servers), Amazon Cloud
      Watch (monitoring).

-   Managed Amazon Web Services like EC2, S3 bucket, ELB, Auto-Scaling,
      SNS, SQS, AMI, IAM, Dynamo DB, Elastic search, Virtual Private
      Cloud (VPC) through AWS Console and API Integration.

-   Experience with test driven development (TDD) using a unit testing
      framework Junit and knowledge of ANT, Maven and Log4j tools.

-   Used version controller tools like Subversion and CVS, Bitbucket,
      Clear Case, Tortoise SVN and Git.

-   Hands-on experience working with Continuous Integration (CI)
      build-automation tools such as Maven, SVN, CVS, Jenkins and Apache
      Ant.

-   Experience on working with Amazon S3 buckets as a storage and
      archive and creating user/resource-based security IAM policies for
      the S3 bucket.

-   Provide daily support with resolution of escalated tickets and act
      as a liaison to business and technical leads and ensure issues are
      resolved in timely manner.

-   Well experienced in collaborating with onsite as well as offshore
      teams and coordinating with business to convert business
      requirements into technical specifications.

TOOLS/TECHNOLOGIES 

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Languages                 Java, SQL, Golang.
  ------------------------- ---------------------------------------------
  Java & J2EE Technologies  Java, J2EE, JDBC, Hibernate, JSP, Servlets,
                            EJB, JMS, Struts, Spring Framework, Java
                            Beans, Web Services

  Framework                 Spring MVC, Spring boot, Spring security

  Servers                   Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, Web sphere

  Databases                 Oracle, DB, MySQL, Realm.

  IDE/ Testing Tools        Eclipse, Android Studio, IntelliJ, Visual
                            basic.

  Database Tools            TOAD, SQL Developer.

  Web Services              SOAP, RESTful, JAX-RS, Micro Services, AWS,
                            Postman.

  Software Management Tools Bitbucket, SVN, WinSCP, CVS, VSS, Clear Case.

  Build Scripts             Gradle, Maven, ANT, Jenkins

  Methodologies             Waterfall, Agile.

  Defect Tracking Tools     Bugzilla, Jira, Firebug.

  Others                    Log4J, JUnit, Ant, Maven, Putty, Jenkins

                            
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

EDUCATIONAL BACKGROUND

B.S. in Computer Science Engineering - JNT University, 2014.

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

Client : Fond - West Chicago, IL. Sep 2021 - Till Date

Role : Java Full Stack Developer.

Responsibilities:

-   Involved in designing and implementation of MVC design pattern for
      the application.

-   Implemented Spring Dependency Injection and Aspect Oriented
      Programming using Spring Framework.

-   Used Amazon Cloud Watch to monitor AWS services and Amazon Cloud
      Watch logs to monitor application.

-   Designed, built and deployed application using the AWS stack
      (Including EC2, Mongo DB, Docker, Kubernetes Orchestration
      container (EKS) focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance and
      auto-scaling. 

-   Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python, Saas, PHP, C++ to
      view Circuit parameters and performance. 

-   Designed and developed Micro Services business components and
      RESTful service endpoints using Golang. 

-   Changed the AWS infrastructure Elastic Beanstalk to Docker
      with Kubernetes.

-   Build Scalable Concurrent Backend Restful API using Golang, Mysql
      and deployed to Used HTML5, bootstrap, CSS3, Grid Gain,
      JBPM, Golang, JavaScript and Angular JS to Designed dynamic and
      browser compatible pages. 

-   Experience with configuration management tools like Ansible and
      Packer and automated the cloud deployments using Terraform.

-   Developed microservices in Golang to process numerous data from
      various dB like Postgres, MYSQL.

-   Worked with MVW frameworks like Django, /Angular JS, HTML, CSS, C++,
      XML, Java Script, jQuery, Bootstrap, JSON. 

-   Built Jenkins jobs to Create AWS infrastructure from GitHub repos
      containing terraform code.

-   Developed scripts in Python to automate network application
      deployments in order to increase efficiency.

-   Used Java 8 Lambda expressions to facilitate functional programming
      and for simplifying the development.

-   Used Orchestration container Kubernetes for load balancing and to
      schedule the tasks across the computer cluster and load balancers
      for backend API services.

-   Worked on building dynamic dashboards and reports based
      off Salesforce ECP Data resource. 

-   Developed backup and recovery engine using VMware vSphere
      APIs, Golang, and RabbitMQ Message Bus. 

-   Used Hibernate object relational data mapping framework to persist
      and retrieve the data from database. 

-   Developed a job server (REST API, Spring Boot, Oracle DB) and job
      shell for job submission, job profile storage, job data
      query/monitoring.

-   Worked on Terraform to create stacks in AWS from the scratch and
      updated the Terraform as per the organization’s requirement on a
      regular basis and used in AWS.  

-   Used Spring Boot Actuator to externalize application's configuration
      properties for various environments. Configured Swagger-UI
      registered Microservice with Eureka to monitor services from
      Spring Boot console.

-   Designed and implemented by configuring Topics in new Kafka cluster
      in all environments. 

-   Deploying applications on Servers like Tomcat and Linux, writing
      Shell scripts and Linux commands to support different applications
      on the server.

-   Created a client-side application by consuming third party SABRE
      SOAP Web Service. This Web Service provides us the data for
      private fares of other carriers. Extensively used Web Services -
      WSDL and SOAP for getting the credit card information of third
      party.

-   Created a server-side SOAP service to have multiple automation
      machines can consume data and run at the same time.

Environment: Java 1.7/1.8, J2EE 1.7/1.8, Realm for Android, Git,
Bitbucket, IntelliJ 10.0.3, Android Studio 2.3.3, 3.0.1, Postman,
SonarQube, Jacoco, Gradle build plugin, Moki, AWS, F5 Access.

Client : Nielsen - Atlanta, GA. May 2018 - August 2021

Role : Sr. Java Developer.

 Responsibilities:

-   Provide development work DT4_Deltaworks Android application with
      Angular based UI and responsible for developing highly scalable
      and high availability systems.

-   Involved in SDLC of application developed using AGILE methodology.

-   Involved in developing presentational and container components using
      React and JSX.  

-   Involved in the team with Senior Developers to write JVM memory
      management code using different Object references and Garbage
      collector methods.

-   Built multiple SDK’s in. Golang to be used by multiple teams across
      the company.

-   Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking
      functions.

-   Transform the source data using Documents Transformation, XSLT,
      XPath and MVEL. Developed micro services using Java Spring Boot
      and Golang with Docker deployments.

-   Developed Microservices using Spring Boot and Node JS to build more
      physically separated modular applications 

-   Developed DevOps tool in java which perform build, deployment, code
      review status, file transfer and seeing logs.

-   Designed and developed the Integration, Business, and service layer
      that meet the business requirements.

-   Interacting with team members to understand the business domain and
      helping them in solving technical problems.

-   Implement microservices architecture using spring boot. Develop and
      set up microservices for standalone systems like store services
      and exception services.

-   Developed client-server application using socket programming
      methodologies.

-   Used Git as the version control tool and Maven, Jenkins as build and
      deployment tools.

-   Develop test suites with JUnit and Mockito frameworks.

-   Implemented REST service endpoints to consume the Profile Info from
      UI.

-   Involved in production support and handling various client SRC
      tickets.

-   Built APKs using Gradle and Tested across multiple environments.

-   Implemented version controlling using Git, Source Tree, and
      Bitbucket.

Environment: Java1.8, SOAP, Realm for Android, Angular 2.0, MGI-ISI
Simulator, Git, Bitbucket, IntelliJ 10.0.3, Android Studio 2.3.3, 3.0.1,
Postman, SonarQube, Jacoco, Gradle.

Client : CarMax ­– Austin, TX. October 2016 – May 2018

Role : Java Developer.

Responsibilities:

-   Involved in the complete SDLC (software development life cycle) of
      the application from requirement analysis to testing.

-   Developed navigation flow, business flow diagrams (BPM), workflow
      diagrams for applications, and created Activity Diagrams / State
      Chart Diagrams using MS Visio. 

-   Followed Agile Methodology in analyzing, define, and document the
      application, which will support functional and business
      requirements. Coordinate these efforts with Functional Architects.

-   Developed the application using J2EE Design Patterns like Business
      Delegate, Factory, Singleton, Session Facade, Service Locator, and
      DAO.

-   Used Spring MVC module to develop MVC Architecture.

-   Configured Spring Container to implement IOC/DI of the Spring Beans,
      and to manage the beans life cycle.

-   Used Jersey to implement Restful Web Service and used XML form to
      transfer the data.

-   Configuration, Cache & logging Services.

-   Developed front end using Struts framework, business components
      using EJB’s.

-   Designed and developed Caching and Logging service using Singleton
      pattern, Log4j. Designed and developed front-end using struts
      framework. Used JSP, JavaScript, JSTL, EL, Custom Tag libraries,
      Tiles and Validations provided by struts framework.

-   Developed stored procedures and complex packages extensively using
      PL/SQL and shell programs.

-   Executed bulk migration of data on AWS DynamoDB from one AWS account
      to another corporate AWS account using Delta Migration Strategy
      with zero downtime.

-   Developed Micro Service to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot
      with Spring MVC.

-   Provided Technical support for production environments resolving the
      issues, analyzing the defects, providing and implementing the
      solution defects.

Environment: Java1.8, J2EE1.8, Spring Boot Framework, Microservices,
Hibernate, SOAP, Restful API’s, SQL, Maven, Jenkins, WebSphere, Apache
Tomcat, SSO, Oauth2, JWT, Elliptical curve, Junit, TestNG, Sonar Lint,
Clover, Bit bucket, Splunk, IntelliJ 10.0.3, Postman.

Client : AIG - NYC, NY January 2015 – September 2016

Role : Java Software Developer.

Responsibilities:

-   Involved in complete SDLC management – Requirements gathering,
      Design, Analysis, Development and Testing 

-   Used AWS like EC6, SNS, SQS, S3, LAMBDA, Amazon Cloud Watch, Amazon
      Simple DB, etc.  

-   Used Struts framework along with JSP, Servlets, HTML, CSS, jQuery
      and JavaScript to construct dynamic web pages. 

-   Involved in the implementation of Stateless session beans for
      business logic layer and Entity beans forAIG. 

-   Used JPA mapping techniques such as One to One and Many to Many
      mappings to represent relation in the project. 

-   Worked Oracle database to create databases of student and faculty
      login information and their desired areas of study.

-   Performed validation for client side as well as server side with the
      help of Struts Validation Framework. 

-   Worked in an Agile process to streamline the development process
      with iterative development.

-   Worked with a variety of issues involving multi-threading, server
      connectivity and user interface. 

Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JSP, Angular JS,
React JS, Servlets, Spring, Struts, Hibernate, Web services, SQL, BPM,
Oracle, Golang, GWT, Stash, AWS.
