Sneha

zanzanesneha13@gmail.com

603 858 8118

Sr. Python Developer

Professional Summary:

-   Senior Python developer having around 7 years of Dynamic experience
    in the areas of Data Distribution, Client/Server communication,
    Multi-threaded applications, Server-side programming, analytical
    programming using Python and Django.

-   Developed various Python scripts to generate reports, send FIX
    messages (FIX Simulator), SOAP requests, TCP/IP programming and
    multiprocessing jobs.

-   Experience in developing MVC web-based applications using Python web
    frameworks like Django, Pyramid, Flask and Web2Py.

-   Built rich Prototypes and Applications using XML, CSS, HTML, XHTML,
    JavaScript and JQuery.

-   Proficient using Python packages such as NumPy, SciPy, Requests,
    matPlotLib, Pickle, Pandas, PySide, wxPython, QT, PyGTK, PyTables
    and Scikit-learn.

-   Expertise on Data bases such as MYSQL, Oracle, PL/SQL, PostgreSQL
    and NOSQL databases like MongoDB, Cassandra.

-   Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers,
    Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database

-   Develop ETL packages using SSIS to insert datasets to SQL server and
    generate project reports using SSRS and SQL

-   Experience in developing applications using Amazon Web Services like
    EC2, Glue, Cloud Search, Elastic Load balancer ELB, S3, SNS,
    CloudFront.

-   Hands on experience on WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python) and
    LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) architecture.

-   Worked with various Python packages like Sphinx, reportlab, xlwt,
    xlrd, virtualenv, lxml.

-   Designed and developed web crawler in python using Scrapy framework
    and using RabbitMQ as a messaging server between the microservices.

-   Expert on OOPS, Multi-threading, Exception-Handling & Collections in
    python.

-   Written Python Scripts, mappers to run on Hadoop distributed file
    system (HDFS).

-   Experience in Snowflake for providing interface for python
    application.

-   Experience in C and C++ languages. Written C and C++ applications
    and also migrated many legacy applications to Python.

-   Hands on experience in designing and maintaining the SOA.

-   Expert in UNIX and Linux commands using command line utilities.
    Developed various Perl, Shell (bash, ksh) scripts to handle
    miscellaneous tasks.

-   Have worked with AGILE and WATERFALL methodologies with high quality
    deliverables delivered on-time.

-   Well experience in Data Extraction, Transforming and Loading (ETL)
    using various tools such as SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS),
    Data Transformation Services (DTS).

-   Experience with WCF, Web API, Web Services, .NET Framework, IIS and
    SQL Server.

Education: Master’s in Information Technology’s, USA, Dec 2019

Bachelor of computer science, Pune university, India, May 2015

Technical Skills:

+----------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
|   Operating Systems        | Linux, Windows 10/8/7/Vista/XP, Mac     |
+============================+=========================================+
| Programming Languages      | Python 2.X, Python 3.X, C, C++, Java,   |
|                            | SQL                                     |
+----------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| Web technologies           | HTML, CSS, XHTML, Java Script, Jquery   |
+----------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| Webserver                  | Web logic, Apache Tomcat 5.5,6.0,8.0,   |
|                            | NGINX                                   |
+----------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| Databases                  | MySQL, PLSQL, Oracle, Microsoft SQL,    |
|                            |                                         |
|                            | PostgreSQL, MongoDB                     |
+----------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| Python Web frameworks      | Django, Pyramid, Flask, web2Py          |
+----------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| Development IDE            | PyCharm, Pydev Ecllipse, Vim, Net       |
|                            | beans, MS Visio, Sublime Text,          |
|                            | Notepad++                               |
+----------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| Web Services               | SOAP, RESTful                           |
+----------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| Version Control            |   Git-Hub, Sub Version                  |
+----------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| 3^(rd) Party configuration |   Web-min, Cygwin                       |
| Tools                      |                                         |
+----------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| Build Tools                |   GNU, Apache Ant, Apache Maven, Buck,  |
|                            |   Bit-Bake, Boot, Grunt                 |
+----------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| Cloud Frameworks           |   Openstack, Helion.                    |
+----------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| Virtualization Platforms   |   KVM, HPVM, Dockers.                   |
+----------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| Profiling Tools            |   Cprofile, profile, tprof, gprof,      |
+----------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
| Methodologies              |   Agile, Scrum, Waterfall               |
+----------------------------+-----------------------------------------+

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE:

Disney

Sr Python Developer May2021-until

Responsibilities:

-   Work with WDAT site reliability engineering team to keep Disney
    services online and efficient.

-   Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and
    testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used
    agile methodology for developing application.

-   Designed and developed the UI of the website using Nodejs, XHTML,
    React, Angular AJAX, CSS also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to
    manage and organize the html page layout

-   Performed Version control using GIT.

-   Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some
    of the menial tasks.

-   Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators, and
    production to ensure production deadlines are met.

-   Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues.

-   Created functions and assigned roles in AWS Lambda to run python
    scripts, and AWS Lambda using java to perform event driven
    processing. 

-   Developed Server-side automation using Node JS scripting and
    connecting different types of SQL and NoSQL stores from Node JS.

-   Implemented a 'server less' architecture using API Gateway, Lambda,
    and Dynamo DB and deployed AWS Lambda code from Amazon S3 buckets.
    Created a Lambda Deployment function, and configured it to receive
    events from your S3 bucket

-   Using Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/Python to
    automate repetitive work.

-   Championed in cloud provisioning tools such
    as Terraform and CloudFormation.

-   Integrate the dynamic pages with Angular.JS and jQuery to make the
    pages dynamic.

-   Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control
    (MVC) architecture and manipulated databases by using Django
    database API along with MySQL

-   Integrate the dynamic pages with Angular.JS and jQuery to make the
    pages dynamic.

-   Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application

-   Used Run deck internal application of Disney for testing purpose to
    check the log outputs for different projects.

Environment: Site Reliability Engineering, Grafana, Splunk, Run deck,
GitHub, Nodejs, Angular,React,AWS,

Automation services, Docker, CSS, HTML, Python, JIRA.

Liberty Mutual

Sr Python Developer May2020-April2021

Responsibilities:

-   Work closely with Data Scientists and Legal Billing Auditors on data
    projects of varying degrees of scale for given financial firm.

-   Develop system/application architecture.

-   Develop maintainable/scalable, effective, defect-free source code
    that meets business needs and team standards.

-   Prepared scripts to ensure proper data access, and reporting
    functions with R programming languages.

-   Lead quality assurance architecture and design guide review;
    identify defects or discrepancies in stories and work with
    appropriate partners and developers to resolve them.

-   Collaborate and tackle production and data integration issues,
    perform root cause analysis, implement solutions, and revise
    procedures and documentation as needed.

-   Identify, review, and implement improvement opportunities
    (performance tuning, improvement, balancing, usability, automation).

-   Formulated procedures for integration of R programming plans with
    data sources and delivery systems.

-   Explore and develop techniques to utilize big data for Legal Data
    Scientists and Auditor teams.

-   Provide appropriate communication to partners related to the team s
    work product.

-   Follow Agile standard methodologies and standards.

-   Implemented REST APIs using Python and Django framework.

-   Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS,
    HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery and Bootstrap.

-   Designed Data Quality Framework to perform schema validation and
    data profiling on Spark (Pyspark) 

-   Responsible for implementing monitoring solutions in Ansible,
    Terraform, Docker, and Jenkins.

-   Perform ETL process with help of SSIS tool to meet the business
    requirements.

-   Unit Test Python library was used for testing many programs
    on python and other codes.

-   Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page
    application

-   Implemented SQL Alchemy which is a python library for complete
    access over SQL. 

-   Experience in Container management using Docker by writing Docker
    files and set up the automated build on Docker HUB and installing
    and configuring Kubernetes.

-   Used several python libraries like wxPython, NumPy and matplotlib.

-   Integrated server by using Flask framework, writing routes and
    queries to build Restful API.

-   Involved in Automation Development using Selenium (Python).

-   Implemented Nginx as ingress controller on Kubernetes.

-   Creation of Python scripts for data access and analysis (Scripts,
    Data Feeds, XLS, FIXML) to aid in process and system monitoring, and
    reporting.

-   Having work experience with CI/CD for integration and deployment
    purpose.

-   Build the dashboard and report for existing business application
    with help of Tableau software.

-   Used Python modules like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pandas, SciPy, wxPython,
    PyTables, PyQt, etc., for generating complex graphical data,
    creation of histograms, etc.

-   Used NumPy, Matplotlib, and Pandas to generate products for major
    enterprises.

-   Executed and written various MYSQL database queries from Python
    using Python-MySQL connector & MySQL dB package.

-   Hands on experience in cloud formation and lambda.

-   Assisted in pricing of securities including bonds and mortgages in
    programming domain such as C++, MTLAB and R programming.

-   Worked on creation of custom Docker container images, tagging and
    pushing the images

-   Deployed and monitored Microservices using pivotal cloud foundry,
    also managed domains and routes with the cloud foundry.

-   Creating security groups, auto-scaling, lambda, load balances in
    defined virtual private connection.

-   Perform validation on machine learning output from R.

-   Performance Analysis and Tuning, Capacity Planning of AIX, Linux and
    Windows servers.

-   Execution of Selenium Test cases and Reporting defects with Python.

-   Web-services backend development using Python (CherryPy, Django,
    SQLAlchemy).

-   Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to
    PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.

-   Created a Lambda Deployment function and configured it to receive
    events from your S3 bucket.

-   Developed and implemented R and Shiny application which showcases
    machine learning for business forecasting.

-   Implemented monitoring and established best practices around
    using elastic search. 

-   Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.

-   Serverless computing experience; AWS lambda preferred.

-   Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for
    the application.

Environment: Python 2.x/3.x, Django 1.9, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, ETL,
JQuery, MySQL, AWS, MongoDB, Angular JS, JIRA, RabbitMQ, Selenium,
Tableau, Web Services, CI/CD, Jenkins, Git, Linux.

​Duke Energy, Charlotte, NC Feb 2019 – Feb 2020

Sr. Python Developer

Responsibilities:

-   Involved in software development life cycle (SDLC) of tracking the
    requirements, gathering, analysis, detailed design, development,
    system testing and user acceptance testing.

-   Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update
    and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record. 

-   Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django
    Web Framework by implementing MVC architecture.

-   Rewrite existing Python/Flask module to deliver certain format of
    data. Created script in python for calling REST APIs.

-   Deployed Django web application in Apache webserver and Carpathia
    cloud web deployment.

-   Perform ETL operation to covert the Python scripts into SQL script
    for business purpose.

-   Involved in designing user interactive web pages as the front-end
    part of the web application using various web technologies
    HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Node Js, React JS, DOM,
    AJAX, XML, XHTML, JSON, SVG, Bootstrap, and Angular JS etc.

-   Developed Python code to gather the data from HBase and designs the
    solution to implement using PySpark.

-   Experience with event-driven and scheduled AWS Lambda functions to
    trigger various AWS resources.

-   Developed PySpark code to mimic the transformations performed in the
    on-premise environment.

-   Used Celery as task queue and RabbitMQ, Redis as messaging broker to
    execute asynchronous tasks.

-   Having hands on experience with tableau software to build the
    report, dashboard of existing application

-   Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions,
    indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design. 

-   Use PowerBI tool to create enterprise gateway to automatically
    refresh the existing application report.

-   Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL
    database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL
    db package to retrieve information.

-   Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.

-   Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded
    application.

-   Deployed and monitored scalable infrastructure on Amazon web
    services (AWS).

-   Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using
    elastic search. 

-   Generated graphical reports using python package Numpy and
    MatplotLib.

-   Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and
    invoke database message service setup and update functionality. 

-   Deployed and administered many MySQL RDS instances, PostgreSQL RDS
    instance and MSSQL database on EC2 server.

-   Used PostgreSQL for storing and retrieving JSON format data that
    need to be displayed on Google maps API. Good knowledge in AngularJS
    and Responsive Design.

-   Designed and implemented a tool called Netcong (Network
    configuration) which automatically configures network switches by
    parsing XML files.

-   Managed code versioning with GitHub, Bit Bucket and deployment to
    staging and production servers.

-   Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test
    Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line
    with Agile Software Methodology principles.

Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.7, HTML5, AWS, CSS, XML, MySQL,
JavaScript, jQuery, Docker, CSS Bootstrap, PySpark, RESTful, MS SQL
Server, Tableau, MongoDB, Elastic Search, PowerBI, Snowflake, NodeJS,
ETL, Ubuntu server, Windows 12 Server, Amazon S3, Jenkins, Map Box,
GitHub, Bit Bucket, Linux, and Windows.

Spectrum Health, Grand Rapids, MI Feb 2018 – Jan 2019

Python Developer

Responsibilities:

-   Requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in
    documenting the business requirements by conducting
    workshops/meetings with various business users.

-   Used Django/Python web-framework to develop application.

-   Developed Scripting based frameworks on python using Linux Platform
    used by embedded engineers for automating mundane tasks.

-   Write terraform scripts for CloudWatch Alerts.

-   Built some frameworks which allow writing scripts in python, which
    will send and receive data over serial port to communicate with
    device firmware.

-   Developed some test scripts in Python that are used to test embedded
    systems via their debug UART port.

-   Used Perl for creating tools to help integrate and generate C code
    from Excel Input or XML files.

-   Extensively used Python requests urllib and urllib2 module to call
    web services.

-   Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical
    analysis.

-   Worked on real time in memory distributed systems.

-   Used MVC framework to build modular and amp maintainable
    applications.

-   Designed and developed transactions and persistence layers to
    save/retrieve/modify data for application functionalities using
    Django and PostgreSQL.

-   Involved in building database Model and Views utilizing Python, in
    order to build an interactive web-based solution.

-   Developed UI screens using HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript and JQuery

-   Done Integration of user-facing elements developed by a front-end
    developer with server-side logic.

-   Work with CI/CD to automate the software delivery process.

-   Having hands on experience with PowerBI tool for visualization
    purpose and building reports.

-   Developed and tested many features for dashboard, created using
    Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.

-   Experience in using Pylint to check for errors in Python code, tries
    to enforce coding standards and get details about code complexity.

-   Involved in problem solving with algorithm and data structures using
    Python.

-   Used AWS for application deployment and configuration.

-   Designed and implemented test procedures for failover/ recovery
    scenarios.

-   Created numerous reports using report lab and xlrt/xlwt python
    packages.

-   Developed Network modules, Socket programming and Web server hosting
    capabilities of Python for some applications (ex. IoT devices).

-   Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of
    Python project.

-   Used agile development techniques like pair programming, test driven
    development (both unit tests and functional tests), continuous
    integration and iterative development.

-   Complete software development was designed and implemented using
    Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.

Environment: Python, Django, PySpark, Docker, Nodejs, NumPy, CI/CD,
Amazon (AWS, SVS, EC2, S3), PostgreSQL, Pylint, JIRA, Linux, Perl
Scripting, Socket programming, PowerBI, SVN.

HSBC, INDIA Oct 2015 – July 2017

Python Developer

Responsibilities:

-   Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of
    Test-Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in
    line with Agile Software Methodology principles.

-   Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git,
    Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and
    Bash.

-   Involved in managing MongoDB environment from availability,
    performance and scalability perspectives.

-   Developed Spark code using Scala and Spark-SQL for faster testing
    and processing of data.

-   Performed Data Modelling, Data Integration, Data Warehousing and
    Data Analytics using Microsoft BI suite -SISS, SSAS and SQL.

-   Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for
    customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL,
    and VMWare API calls.

-   Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to
    develop the application and Worked closely with software developers
    and DevOps to debug software and system problems.

-   Worked on resulting reports of the application and Tableau reports.

-   Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST
    API, Mongo DB, intelliJ IDEA.

-   Responsible for building scalable distributed data solutions using
    Hadoop.

-   Design and Setting up of environment of Mongo dB with shards and
    replica sets. (Dev/Test and Production).

-   Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some
    of the menial tasks.

-   Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and
    production to ensure production deadlines are met.

-   Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into
    the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also
    created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.

-   Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript for front end
    applications.

-   Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML,
    AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.

-   Used HTML5, CSS3, JQUERY,EXTJS, AngularJS, and REST/SOAP API's to
    develop complex responsive themes and plugins.

-   Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html
    page layout.

-   Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.

-   Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using
    Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.

-   Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and
    getting data from the external interface in the XML format.

-   Worked extensively with Bootstrap, Javascript, and jQuery to
    optimize the user experience.

-   Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation
    process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we
    requests from multiple browser to web application.

-   Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage
    the storage and deletion of content.

Environment: Python, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, Angular, Restful API, MySQL,
Panda, PL/SQL, UNIX, Linux

Webfosys Inc. India July 2014 – Sep 2015

Python Developer

Responsibilities:

-   Designed and developed components using Python. Implemented code in
    python to retrieve and manipulate data.

-   Profiled python code for optimization and memory management.

-   Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and creating
    efficient system.

-   Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL and
    implemented configuration changes for data models.

-   Designed and developed UI using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, Java Script and
    jQuery.

-   Used Javas Script libraries like jQueryUI, datagrid, jscolor,
    highcharts.

-   Developed the presentation layer using HTML, JSP, CSS and DHTML.

-   Developed widgets for GUI using PyGtk modules of Python.

-   Used Django to develop web-based application and deploy it using
    Jenkins.

-   Used MySQL as backend database and Mysqldb of python as database
    connector to interact with MySQL server.

-   Developed Page layouts, Navigation and presented designs and
    concepts to the clients and the management to review.

-   Used Restful APIs to access data from different suppliers.

-   Used Python and Django for creating graphics, XML processing of
    documents, data exchange and business logic implementation between
    servers.

-   Used Python Data structures like sqlite3, lists, dictionaries, and
    tuples.

-   Used several Python libraries like NumPy, Pandas and MatplotLib.

-   Helped with the migration from the old server to Jira database with
    Python scripts for transferring and verifying the information

-   Supported Apache Tomcat web server on Linux Platform.

-   Used RAD 7.0 for implementing Static and Dynamic web services for
    consuming and providing services related to the business.

-   Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.

-   Deployed the project into Jenkins using SVN version control system.

-   Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs,
    Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.

-   Debugging Software for Bugs.

-   Support the scripts configuration, testing, execution, deployment
    and run monitoring.

-   Environment: Python, RAD 7.0, C++, Ajax, HTML Restful API, MySQL,
    Django, Panda, Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, SVN, Jenkins, Jira, UNIX,
    Linux
