 

The University of Rochester motto of Meliora – or “ever better” - deeply integrates critical core values into all that we do. These core values of equity, leadership, integrity, openness, respect and accountability define not only who we are, but also who we hope to become. Please use the space below to highlight a time, creative idea or research experience when you put into action one or more of these characteristics in order to make yourself, your community or the world ever better

 

 

 

While my experiences as a freshman were diverse, research was the most significant and rewarding part of my journey. Committing myself to the science of questioning, learning, and breaking boundaries strengthened my investigative mindset and passion. Inspired to reduce the increasing xenophobic violence and discrimination against Asians linked to the Covid-19 pandemic, I took crucial steps to address the wave of racism and create awareness in our society. I approached this process by comparing the epidemics throughout history to COVID-19, conducting a survey and interviews to examine the effects of coronavirus, and hypothesizing about technological and biological factors.

 

During the five months of working on my research, I developed a stronger understanding of human rights. Realizing some of the anti-Asian mindsets through our survey, I took action to promote public messaging and enhance people’s perspectives to fight racism. I was fortunate to present new educational policies and action plans to address hate speech. My primary goal was to combat the harassment that Asians receive. Being a community activist at my core, I embed myself in these pillars to reflect a greater sense of leadership and integrity. 

 

Rochester’s motto, Meliora, is a guiding principle for my morals, and it correlates to a core element of my identity. Its association with becoming better relates to how I perceive the ideal of equity. An ideal that I pursued to encourage others to strive through my research. At Rochester, I’m thrilled to engage with passionate students like myself to make the world ever better.