 

I slouched over the counter and fanned myself with that morning’s copy of Sin Chew Daily, my face dripping in sweat from the tropical heat. “Zab lieb dang!” What was he saying? The grey-haired man, spotting my perplexed expression, gestured towards a tray of eggs and made out the number “ten”. Just as I turned to grab the eggs, another customer curtly hollered, “Hit ĕ ko-lê-chhài!” The fatigue in me punctuated. I returned an annoyed glare but immediately regretted my rash reaction. Seeing the lady’s shocked expression, my heart sank as I couldn’t justify my outburst despite the language barrier, my lethargy, and mounting pressure from the snaking queues. After all, the regulars at grandpa’s provision shop spoke anything but English and Mandarin.

Another culture shock awaited me: grandpa was doing his daily accounts on an abacus – most people nowadays probably haven’t even seen one before. “Why not try Microsoft Excel, Ye-ye? It’ll handle your work in no time!” Grandpa’s eyebrows furrowed, “Huh? What’s that?” 

Stocktaking, creating custom formulas, and organizing data into a user-friendly document became my self-designated project to optimize grandpa’s accounting process. The final product, a simple dashboard that shows grandpa his shop’s periodic profits, was seemingly foolproof. However, grandpa didn’t get it immediately. “No Ye-ye, you’re supposed to type the cost, not quantity, of eggs sold in this cell.” I assumed grandpa would fall back to his abacus, but a gentle smile remained plastered on his face as he patiently practised using the spreadsheet.

Grandpa isn’t tech-savvy but he is identical to me in a unique way: we both struggled with new languages. For grandpa, it was technology; and for me, the dialects of the village. Yet, we were fundamentally different. Observing how grandpa calmly listened as I explained a complex foreign concept showed me the person I envision myself to be – a gentleman who respects diversity and understands differences.

That wasn’t me – yet. I therefore resolved to navigate the confluence of languages at the shop and break down the barrier that isolated me from my community. Still, it wasn’t easy grappling with instructions in a hundred and one tongues. Patience was undoubtedly key; only after slowly listening to each request did I begin noticing familiar speech patterns and come to appreciate the beauty of each language spoken in the village. 

I originally thought understanding differences was essential in doing so. In hindsight, I realized that finding common ground in conflicting opinions was even more important than merely accepting them, as integrating novel approaches enabled me and grandpa to leverage others’ strengths to improve ourselves – like how grandpa now uses Excel efficiently in his daily bookkeeping and how I’ve gained a rudimentary grasp of Malay and Tamil at the end of my five-week summer stint.

The barrage of new languages thrown at me was like having a chokingly spicy bowl of curry. And many of my life’s greatest adventures have been just like that: overwhelming initially, but it is precisely the spices and seasonings that add flavour to life. Therefore, although opposing views can be seen as undesirable, I now prefer to treat them as learning opportunities. I’ve learned more about the social factors influencing educational inequality by motivating a disengaged trooper – whom I later found out was studying for a diploma privately – as an Army sergeant than pouring through books on the subject. And in sparring ideas with fellow data scientists at my non-profit was I able to excavate unseen flaws in my own models. A refreshing perspective never fails to delight me nowadays. By being open-minded, I’m prepared for more surprises ahead, but as Meredith Grey puts it, “knowing is better than wondering.”

Peaceful debates are beyond educational, it’s become therapeutic and entertaining for me. I love hearing my ideas being challenged, and I love presenting my own perspective on other people’s logic. Hence, whenever I hear an unfamiliar accent or enter a difficult situation, my immediate response is no longer to reject it. I instead seek to internalize these differences. Tolerance and receptiveness, not blind prejudice, now define me as I allow my past, present, and future experiences to shape my evolving identity.