Inner beauty is said to be more important than external beauty. But it was difficult to believe it when I glanced in the mirror and saw my face covered in unattractive imperfections. I have heard a lot of people point out to me that my skin is bad and consequently, I have thought about it for a long time.

 

 Acne has been part of my life since I was 14 years old. Until then, I had perfect skin. Like, picture-perfect skin—hardly any pimples ever. But as time went on, my entire cheeks were taken over by pimples, whiteheads, redness, and dry patches. I would regularly say I hated it or that I looked disgusting. I knew nothing about skincare, so I would use topical creams, aggressive acids, or face masks that dried out my sensitive skin. Eventually I started visiting dermatologists, and each would prescribe me a plethora of topical treatments, antibiotics, birth control pills, and other potent medications but nothing ever seemed to work. I also needed regular blood tests to ensure my liver function wasn’t being impacted by the medications. I did have odd periods where my skin seemed to clear up, but it never lasted.

 

 Did I like my reflection in the mirror? No. It was tough for me to adore the face I saw. I fought to accept the facial hair, acne, and scars that I was born with. I always put my hands on my face to conceal the parts that I didn’t like. People seemed to be gazing at my skin.  Not only that, but they would make blatant comments about it: "What happened to your face? It's no longer appealing." I felt judged, ashamed, embarrassed, unworthy, depressed,  and anxious. At that point in life I should have been out meeting new people,creating new relationships and having fun with life’s adventures. Instead I hid away, always finding an excuse not to go out with friends and family in order to escape the criticism that would erode my self-esteem.

 

 After keeping my cystic acne problems to myself for the majority of my teens, I decided to share my thoughts and feelings online. I connected with so many women who felt exactly the same way I did and slowly I realized I was relying on society's views and my perception of acne as a flaw to define who I am and what I should accomplish solely based on how I appeared. Finding the ideal solution wasn't the major challenge for me; rather, it was coming to terms with the fact that everyone experiences skin issues and that breakouts are inevitable.

 

In June 2020, I started my Instagram acne page as a diary for me to track what factors were influencing the condition of my skin. I discussed minimal skincare and uploaded raw selfies of my face. I was utterly terrified of the world seeing me, but I did it anyway because I knew there was someone out there like me that needed to see someone smiling with acne online. I received negative feedback, but every message from someone who felt empowered by my posts or enjoyed one of my product suggestions made it all worthwhile. I discovered that the more I talked about it with others, the more I realized how many other people struggled with the same issue, which made me feel less nervous. I became the part of #acnepositivity movement where people share their real skin, unapologetically. It has been a safe place for us to share the mental and physical battles that come with having acne. I have seen this movement inspire girls like me who were embarrassed and ashamed to post pictures of themselves on social media become confident and proud of their appearance.