Describe an example of your leadership experience in which you have positively influenced others, helped resolve disputes, or contributed to group efforts over time.

Last year, I was a member of the Associated Student Body (ASB) at my school, where we had big dreams but few resources to make them come true. We began planning the first event since lockdown, but unfortunately, nine students could only do so much with a limited budget, no advisor, and a tight time constraint. 

The stress eventually overcame the group and caused disagreements, negatively affecting the group dynamic. We could not decide on the smallest of agendas and also neglected planning future events. Recognizing that something needed to change in order for us to be successful, I decided to improve communications within the group. 

From a young age, I served as an interpreter to my immigrant parents, who had difficulty understanding English and the American customs that came with it. I would observe and understand concepts, convey them to my parents, and then patiently wait for their responses. Inspired by how I successfully navigated between my parents and the English language, I decided to try a similar approach with my stressed teammates. 

I began by observing and understanding— or in other words, I was emphasizing perspectives different from my own. Though all different, each vision had its own merits. 

Next, I needed to convey the message, which meant discussing it with my group. I emphasized that we needed to adapt to having contrasting opinions if we wanted to work together for the rest of the year and highlighted how different visions meant more substantial innovation. 

The last was to wait for the response, so I continued to encourage my teammates to communicate and recognize the resourcefulness in one another. Our team eventually pulled through and was able to conduct the event successfully. 

My effort positively impacted the club's dynamics and actions for the rest of the year. We raised more than a hundred children’s books for the Richardson's Center, conducted eleven engaging student events, and even created new resources for future ASBs so that they could make their dreams come true without experiencing the same initial struggles we had.