Describe how you have taken advantage of a significant educational opportunity or worked to overcome an educational barrier you have faced.

Before my enrollment at the community college, I saw the opportunity to join the pathway programs over the summer. To do so, I had to attend orientation sessions that showcased us what it would be like to become apart of the program and how it would be beneficial to my studies to be able to utilize their resources. The program was to provide full and effective support to students on their academic journey. In receiving support from the program, I used the tutoring and coaching resources available. In doing so, helped me identified my academic goals of being in the business field. The tutoring sessions has assisted me in improving my critical thinking skills on forming better thesis and analysis as well as mathematic obstacles.

Next step of the program was to meet with my assigned success coach, who had played an important role in my development at college, to make sure I am adjusting well with my needs and well-being. She had encouraged me to join the Honors program at it would enrich my academic experience in which she was also a part of before. I agreed and went for it. I was nervous and thrilled upon the acceptance as I know that this was the beginning of a challenging year but also being able to push myself to newer heights.

Upon accepting the challenge, I decided to go further and register for Honors Calculus for two consecutive semesters. The courses rigor did lived up to its reputation with balancing between the amount of projects and materials. Math was never my strong suit but before I started to panic I knew that I was able to seek out help from the tutoring service available. As difficult as it was, I became accustomed to the workload and raised myself to a higher standard in mathematics. I have developed this deep profound appreciation for the complexity and intricacies behind mathematical applications to the real world.