From serving as a resident assistant, to joining a service sorority, to serving in several positions in student government, public service has been an integral part of my life. While  studying in Prague during the fall of my senior year, I solidified my desire to work in the Peace Corps before law school. Because I tended to travel alone while I was abroad, I found that I became more attentive to my surroundings. Furthermore, my solitude also encouraged me to interact with the locals. And before I knew it, I was having Pilsner Urquells in the local pub with friends I had just made and discussing the political demonstration regarding refugees marching by with a local in Berlin while waiting for our train. My experience in Prague also introduced me to a diverse array of perspectives from my classmates and faculty, most of which challenged my former U.S.-centric beliefs. I wanted to continue to challenge these beliefs, and I knew the Peace Corps would help me to achieve this goal.

Due  to the global pandemic, my dreams of serving in the Peace Corps would not come to fruition. In March 2020, the Corps elected to pause enrollment, and it was uncertain when, if ever, the program would resume. The Peace Corps would have enabled me to learn about diplomacy and public service on an intimate level. I moped around for a few weeks, uncertain of my next steps, but I knew I did not want to go to school during such tumultuous times. Therefore, I left my retail job in search of a new adventure. I learned new skills working in finance, all the while trying to break into the legal field. 

My first exposure to legal study came when I joined my high school's inaugural mock trial team. While researching our first case, I realized that the law was like a jigsaw puzzle, except the puzzle could be built in numerous different ways. I liked that there were multiple mechanisms to solve the problems, each avenue brought forth a unique perspective on the legal question at hand. During my first debate practice, I became entranced with crafting arguments and learning about current events and how the intricacies of the topics could, again, produce so many strategies. Through these activities I developed a desire to enter law school.

Upon entering college I had everything figured out; I would major in history, a discipline that would enable me to further my writing and analytical skills, and thus prepare me for law school. The summer after my freshman year I attended the Sue Shear Leadership Academy for Women in Public Life. Being surrounded by so many successful women broadened my horizons. I saw myself using my law degree in politics, or in community activism; whatever it may be, I felt resolved in my decision to attend law school. During my sophomore year, I added political science as a second major and fell in love with international affairs, especially conflict resolution and diplomacy. I signed up for the only two Arabic classes we had and made studying abroad a priority to gain international experience. I also landed a prestigious undergraduate research experience with the National Science Foundation on peace science and conflict resolution. 

Attending this program was a dream–I worked with top scholars in conflict studies and conducted research towards understanding how consent to UN peacekeeping missions affected the conflict severity in Sub-Saharan states. On the other hand, I felt frustrated by the lack of action that scholars in our field could have. Social science research in these areas is often so dense and unapproachable that it’s frequently ignored in lieu of monetary and military intervention. Focus has shifted in recent years to forced peace, which has shown to be more deadly and prolonged conflicts further. After conducting my research I was unsure that I wanted to work within those constraints of already established laws that did not seem to be helping those they were meant to serve. It was at this moment that my passion for conflict and diplomacy and my curiosity for the law melded together. I knew why I wanted to go to law school; to protect those in international communities ravaged by war and conflict. I could turn my research into action by working in law and examining the mechanisms for how state actors and NGOs respond to conflict. I want to understand how I may become a social actor in furthering diplomatic efforts in international conflict and work to limit the destruction and loss by those affected.