 

What would you say is your greatest talent or skill? How have you developed and demonstrated that talent over time?  329/350

 

The garage was a mess, with parts lying everywhere, motor oil under my nails, and a disassembled B54 engine hanging above the ground. My 2003 BMW was on its last leg and I took on the challenge of rebuilding the engine. I gathered my thoughts and rewatched YouTube tutorials repeatedly, taking time until I finally understood why the engine didn't start. 

 

Prior to taking on this challenge, I succeeded in doing regular car maintenance such as oil changes and even a few modifications like a custom exhaust and aftermarket air intake to make the car more flashy. I had enormous confidence going into this as I was able to remove the engine with ease, however, I ran into one problem after another. I didn't have the proper tools and parts, but more importantly, I didn't have adequate knowledge. I rushed into the repair without appropriate preparation and opted to learn as I went. Supplied with endless amounts of YouTube tutorials and auto repair forums on Reddit, I was finally able to successfully repair and reassemble the engine. 

 

Starting it up and hearing the engine roar was one of the most fulfilling moments I experienced, validating my hard work. I developed my talent by exercising my patience skills when the engine didn't turn on for the first time. I stayed resilient and refused to give up on my project because I knew I was capable of fixing it. I learned that there are never any simple solutions, but rather ones that take time to understand and execute. Most importantly, I learned to always be prepared before taking on challenges we may feel confident in. Proper preparation saves time and makes work more efficient. Today I help my friends repair their cars and developed a greater appreciation for the engineering that goes behind making a car work. I always find new ways to improve the functionality and performance of cars whether it be finding new parts or tuning the software that controls the car. 