Prompt: Discuss an accomplishment, event, or realization that sparked a period of personal growth
and a new understanding of yourself or others.
The clock reads two in the morning. There’s pin-drop silence. My mother and I light up the living room,
waiting for my dad to return from the 9-hour drive. Entirely unaware, he would bring something to help
me discover my inner confidence and surge my love for him.
It’s 2019, and I’m competing in my first-ever solo instrumentalist competition as a guitarist.
Competitions excite me because they give me an excuse to work hard for so long and shine for a fraction
of that time. But they are intimidating. Thoughts of doubt always rage as I never know who would
perform on the stage and thrash me out of the competition.
Two ingredients are missing: confidence and skill.
In my journey to find these missing pieces, there was one more voyager: my dad.
He instructed me in performing my first self-learned piece: Gratitude by Amin Toofani, which would later
become a part of my identity. This song separates my presence from the outside world and blends me in
with all the taps and flamenco strums. House guests demand I play this piece every time they visit.
But coming along this way had some big bumps.
My dad had a strict, systematic way of helping me through the process, which I did not appreciate. For
example, if I made one small mistake, he would make me play it ten more times even though I’d played it
correctly enough times. However, there was this one error that I would not stop making, which always
turned my dad into a lightning rod– the scale run before the tap on the guitar along with A-minor.
Days after days, from the sun being mid-sky to disappearing, I would play this part hundreds, if not
thousands, of times because they were not perfect, with my dad nitpicking my every mistake. Towards the
end, my fingertips became as rough as a rock because of the calluses. At one point, I felt every single
piece of regret for signing up for the competition and questioned my capabilities.
One morning, I was shocked by the news that my dad was not in this house, this town, or not even in-
state. Why? He drove 300 miles to buy a new guitar. It’s 2 a.m., and he arrives home. I can’t express the
speed at which I opened the guitar case and felt all the brand-new strings on my fingers. Speechless and
intrigued, I questioned myself, “Why would he buy this guitar if I’m not great at playing my instrument?”
It was finally the evening when I would receive my answer. I was waiting in the dark but loud backstage.
Being the last to perform, I heard every other participant and noticed how their hard work came to work
and shined themselves. My heart was racing at a million beats per minute as I thought about the scale run
I always blundered. I was next. I walked onto the stage, located my dad from the large crowd, and looked
him into his eyes.
I began playing. The crowd started clapping, but I didn’t let that distract me as I was about to switch
worlds. I was lost. The tap on the new guitar echoed into the auditorium through the speakers. The
flamenco strumming chords flew into my ears. It was time for the scale run. I flawlessly played it.
Before I realized it, the show was over. The audience felt “Gratitude.”
Later that night, I received the answer to my question: [My Name]– Best Instrumentalist in the State.
However, there was a person happier than anyone in the room: my dad. Tears ran down his cheeks as I
saw his proud smile.