Discuss an accomplishment, event, or realization that sparked a period of personal growth and a new understanding of yourself or others.

 

Pacing the floor of my dimly-lit library at quarter to midnight on a random Friday, a single thought occupied my mind; we were going stargazing. As I put on my shoes, I made a mental note to include it in my journal. 

While setting up the telescope, my muscle memory instantly took over, leaving my mind untethered and at liberty to contemplate the grandiosity of the universe. Backtracking to my journal, I thought of the common thread sewing all the pieces of my life in place; sleepless nights.

Episodes where sleep has eluded me can be counted on my fingers. As I have traversed through my short existence on this planet, the things I have found to be the most monumental in my life are often those that have managed to keep me awake through the night without relying on caffeine. Stargazing is one of those few riveting notions. 

Epiphanies are another. The day I realized that the world could be perceived as a vast library and the people as books, I tossed and turned all night, thinking of how I had extracted some perspective from every person I had spoken with. I engaged in conversations, not knowing that every notion I was introduced to would coalesce to form various facets of my identity and the individual I am today; much like how constellations are a mosaic of stars sprawled across the galaxy.

Revelations can be credited with some sleepless nights too. The setting was as unremarkable as it could be. My mother and I were watering our kitchen garden but she was struggling to lift the watering can. With the next words she said, my world caved in on itself; she had been diagnosed with an autoimmune disease. Amidst all my frantic emotions, numbness seemed to emerge dominant. The long shadows on the ground and the fading darkness finally broke me out of my trance; the sun was up again. 

Unresolved problems have a similar effect on me. My first friend and I bonded over the fact that we were both philozoists. A restless night followed the day I met Einstein and Edison, the two tortoises we had jointly rescued. Seeing their emerald shells metamorphose into an indifferent dull brown because of their exposure to oil spills broke my heart. 

But what do I do as I stay awake? Stare up at the ceiling and contemplate, pace the floor and fret or keep the lights on and burn the midnight oil? It’s all of those things, in that order. I emerge from each insomniac night, a distinct person, truer to myself. 

The night of the epiphany- I replayed several conversations in my head but a conversation between my father and I echoed over the cacophony, “Nobody can help you more than you”. The night of the revelation- I combed through all the information I could find on muscular dystrophy. In the following days, I delayed initiating communication while she brushed aside the constant reminders. I questioned the efficacy of our denial and decided to address the elephant. An honest conversation made me understand that she was showing acceptance, not dismissal. The night of the unresolved problem- I read about more displaced animals and ventured to design the prototype of a propellant device to detect and clean oil spills. Over the next month, I worked to materialize my creation in hopes of safely returning the tortoises to their natural habitat.

Now, as I stare up at the night sky, I do not see an empty abyss; I see an endless library- one full of stars, supernovas and nebulas. I think of all the worlds that are left unexplored, of the innumerable conversations, epiphanies and revelations ahead of me, and how I eagerly await them. A solitary thought flashes across my mind like a comet, you do not know what you haven’t encountered yet. 

And so, I explore.