Think about an academic subject that inspires you. Describe how you have furthered this interest inside and/or outside of the classroom. 

 

Many people consider quarantine to be the worst experience they have endured, however, it provided my most memorable opportunities. I expanded my interest in business and accounting by becoming a reseller: a person who buys items to flip for a profit. I started off small by refurbishing shoes that I bought at the flea market and selling them for at least 25% profit. As I built up my reputation as a reputable reseller on marketplace apps, I shifted to buying new, trendy, shoes that were highly sought after. Due to the high demand and low inventory of these shoes, I received over 50% return in profit for each pair sold. As I continued my small business, I took advantage of my flexible schedule to research ways of expanding. I discovered that there was a microchip shortage due to Covid which made graphic cards, a PC component, hard to obtain, forcing many PC enthusiasts to buy through third-party sellers, usually at a more expensive price. Taking advantage of the building of custom office computers for work trends, I rinsed and repeated my method of selling shoes, instead this time, the profit margin was even larger due to the low supply of graphic cards. 

 

Reselling gave me real hands-on experience in starting and managing a business by allowing me to make mistakes and learn from them. Mistakes such as expanding too quickly led me to become careless when negotiating with buyers. However, these mistakes taught me valuable lessons such as how to look for successful products by carefully analyzing correlations between commodity patterns and current events. Finally, I learned crucial marketing and communication skills when listing my products for sale and negotiating with buyers online. Once I made a profit, I learned how hard it was to budget my money because I needed to leave aside enough to put back into my business while also leaving enough for myself to spend which exposed me to personal accounting and budgeting.