Prompt 1
Describe an example of your leadership experience in which you have positively influenced others, helped resolve disputes or contributed to group efforts over time. 

Our captain flew back in recoil from the volleyball’s strike. It felt like we were the Avengers watching Iron Man’s death in slow motion. Reality set when we brought him to the nurse, where his rest was ideal. The game continued five versus six. Throughout the chaos that ensued, communication clashed, leading to our self-sabotage. I called for a timeout to regroup and collect ourselves if we wanted to win. One by one, I assigned responsibilities to each of us with a quick reason to ensure confidence. I listened to my teammates on how to apply their abilities best and envisioned the most successful outcome. I explained the pros and cons behind each idea to reach a mutual consensus on what to pursue. Time rang and we entered the court, the backline I assigned was fearless and our server was consistent. The court we were on was the same as before, but the atmosphere had sharpened in parallel with our newly determined presence. As the acting captain of our Avengers, my voice reached everyone with newborn respect. I strategized on the fly and vocalized our plays; from forming new attacks, defenses, and player rotations, we developed an unspoken rhythm. With our recovering captain returning to watch the final moments of the game, I passed the spotlight onto him returning, empowering the team to bring this one home. Soon we gained momentum and relied less on my calls and more on our instincts, an indicator of good teamwork.

Thought we lost, I finally understood what it meant to be captain. It meant taking the strengths of each individual and formulating a play where they succeed. By taking the initiative, I motivated us to reach new heights together in an unfamiliar and adverse situation. I discovered that when people want to pursue a common goal, it’s only natural that the opportunity to lead presents itself. Seizing those opportunities has allowed me to create opportunities for everyone to attain our goals both on and off the court. Academically I have been able to steer collaborative work into the ideal product. I learned that with a voice, I could describe the vision, but with leadership, I can make it a reality.

VER2.
Our captain flew back in recoil from the volleyball’s strike. We led him to the nurse where his rest was critical. The game continued five versus six. Throughout the chaos that ensued, communication clashed, leading to our self-sabotage. I called for a timeout to regroup and collect ourselves if we wanted to win. One by one, I assigned responsibilities to each of us with a quick reason to ensure confidence. I listened to my teammates on how to apply their abilities best and envisioned the most successful outcome. I explained the pros and cons behind each idea to reach a mutual consensus on what to pursue. Time rang and we entered the court, the backline I assigned was fearless and our server was consistent. The court we were on was the same as before, but the atmosphere had sharpened in parallel with our newly determined presence. As the acting captain, my voice reached everyone with newborn respect. I strategized on the fly and vocalized our plays; from forming new attacks, defenses, and player rotations, we developed an unspoken rhythm. With our recovering captain returning to watch the final moments of the game, I passed the spotlight onto him returning, empowering the team to bring this one home. Soon we gained momentum and relied less on my calls and more on our instincts, an indicator of good teamwork.

Though we lost the game, I had an important takeaway from this experience , I understood what it meant to be captain. It meant taking the strengths of each individual and formulating a play where they succeed. By taking the initiative, I motivated us to reach new heights together in an unfamiliar and disadvantaged situation. I discovered that when people want to pursue a common goal, it’s only natural that the opportunity to lead presents itself. Seizing those opportunities has allowed me to create opportunities for everyone to attain our goals both on and off the court. Academically I have been able to steer collaborative work into the ideal product. I learned that with a voice, I could describe the vision, but with leadership, I can make it a reality.