 

Describe an example of your leadership experience in which you have positively influenced others, helped resolve disputes or contributed to group efforts over time.  

In a moment of boredom under isolation, I ventured into the world of League— a video game infamous for its high concentration of weak-willed narcissistic individuals. 

The most popular MOBA(multiplayer online battle arena) game sets two teams of five facing off against each other on a complex battlefield. Mainly taking on the difficult solo role in the middle of the field, I act as the centerpiece of the team. I’m expected to appear at every fight around the massive map and contribute to every team objective.  Countless expectations are placed upon me and I must fulfill them or else suffer the wrath of my teammates. As a game with the utmost importance of behaving as a cohesive team, I must also take the initiative to bring the team together, constantly making and communicating decisions to direct our team towards a goal. With every game I play, my leadership emerges; a quick decision-maker who isn’t afraid of failure but instead accepts it with grace and perseveres through loss and blame in pursuit of eventual victory. 

In spite of my efforts, the downfall of my team typically isn’t a lack of communication, but the frail mentality of my teammates. Coupled with a toxic culture, my teammates give up easily, often leaving the team with a devastating disadvantage. Hating to see my teammates dejected, I use the game chat to lift their spirits and convince them that they matter; showing kindness and expressing my genuine encouragement. Inadvertently, I’ve found that pushing my teammates to persevere and raising morale is what helps our team the most. No matter how bad they’re doing, I’ll always show my full support for them; to show them they matter, strengthening a crucial part of our team. 

League has brought out and shaped my leadership more than anything. Every action I take as a Tzu Chi(volunteering organization) group leader, I see it reflected in my actions in-game. Additionally, I find myself applying my ability to take insults/criticism and communication skills learned from League into mediating—as a soccer referee—between parents, coaches, and players to ensure a fair, fun, and safe environment for all. I’ll forever use the leadership skills that I’ve learned in League to unite and lead others out in the real world.