Please provide a statement that addresses your reasons for transferring and the objectives you hope to achieve.

At COA, we know that grades on a transcript tell only one part of your story. In one to two paragraphs, please describe one or more aspects of your educational background that may not be evident from your transcript alone. For instance, you might describe a class or educational experience that inspired or influenced you or difficult circumstances that may have impacted your grades. 

I could never do well in a traditional school setting. Maybe it has to do with my heightened sensitivity towards beauty and inclination to safety but also exploration. I come from a troubled home, and that isn’t an invite to sympathize but rather to illustrate and contextualize my individual experience in relation to my circumstances. I came into the world between two wars, war at a national level had just ended and yet a more intimate war had started for my parents. It was the war of a youth lost to trouble. Too afraid to let go of their lost youth, my parents integrated that naivety into their parenting and I am most grateful.
My home was simultaneously nurturing and scary. My young married parents had a very pure and beautiful love to give to me, yet the war had complicated what should've been a smooth passage from one role to another, from individuals to caretakers. My childhood itself smashed the idea of how a family should look like, how parents should be. It made me realize from early on that you cannot just simply embody a culture, image, or norm that society tries to portray if it doesn’t fit within your context. Living is being in a constant state of invention, every moment.
I always played an active role in the making of my family, because at the end of the day my parents didn’t know what they were doing any more than I did. The lines between parent and child were very blurry. Many times we were simply three people bound by blood and a whole lotta love that were trying to make sense of the world and live together. This looks like me calling meetings every Saturday to talk about conflicts and feelings of the week or gathering to brainstorm about a decision I wanted to make. I always wanted to be involved and they let me, and this way no one of us was more important than the other. What this built is a strong sense of respect towards my own particular process of learning and of finding myself.
My home, as much as it taught me to be differentiated and to expect to be celebrated in that, it also taught me that if you create the structures that allow for equal relating, rather than through roles, structures that each person feels involved and like an agent with power, our way of co-existing can change immensely. Somehow I’ve always tried to seek the environment I grew up in, because I knew it was possible. Experience is the most trustworthy teacher.
While this meant that I would never settle with an ambiguous answer, it also planted a deep residing drive to seek more and more, to never settle with only what’s being presented before me, to always peak behind the curtain, and to see life as a process of learning and of creation.
School isn’t an object, and teaching isn’t a role. We are all each other's teachers. Plants, bee hives, our wise grandparents, our children, they’re all teachers. The world is our classroom, and learning happens in between, it happens in the everyday.
So yes, I have resisted a rigid framework as I perceive to be the traditional schooling I’ve been a part of all my life, and that’s reflected in my grades. Nonetheless, I will continue to, because look where it led me. 

-I was born in a state of tension. Amidst a state of tension, for my parents. I came out in the middle of two wars, the war on the timing in which I surfaced into the world, has shaped my whole childhood. War at a national level had just ended yet a more intimate war had started within my parents. It was the war of youth lost to trouble, a death of selves having to let go out of  need to make space for me. Too afraid to let go, or rather out of lack of experience my parents integrated their youth into making a home. And I am grateful. 