Our car was in the midst of thin air and Amarkantak mountains, seeking no end, ad infinitum. A mother was weeping against the window, getting glimpses of her childhood. The pitter-patter of the rain muffled the mother’s weeping and lulled a baby who was finally half a decade old to sleep. The baby had filled up her pockets with not just excitement to meet her family, but also a spectrum of different candies she had picked up during pit stops. Of course, she planned it; she wanted to give her uncles and aunts something on her 5th birthday. Back on the road, it felt like they were chasing clouds, but little did they know, they were chasing an angel on her way to heaven. I ran to my Uncle and grandpa hoping to get held and soldered by kisses, and get a “happy birthday, baby.” But I never did. I hoped they'd take the candies out of my hand and pat my head. But they never did. I walked in to see my grandma laying in a cot awfully peaceful. I waited for her to get up and give me a box of pistachios and cookies, but she never did. The pertinence of this memory to my current life - has to be the most bolt-out-of-blue miracle. A 17- year old faking her way into tricking her intuitions because they never worked in favor of her plans? What are the odds? Ever since I was a kid, I had never gotten the perfect family ground that most kids do. My father was busy in Africa with projects looming over his head and my mom handling me at home; it further elevated me to going to a boarding school, and seeing my parents for a month every year. It’s needless to say, the essence of individuality and independence had bloomed quite early in my life. Albeit, there had always been a void and then, it slowly drained all aspects of my life. As I grew, I started being outrageously dependent on being logical - which in the book “Become a Billionaire: Guide 101” was correct. Well, almost. It showed up in my action-reaction to circumstances that didn’t go as I planned. My intuitive mind wrestling against my destiny itself - always the opposite. Eventually, I started thinking about the negatives of what I wanted. In hopes of tricking myself. Even Erickson wouldn’t be able to explain the sort of identity crisis it was. During the summer, I ended up sitting in front of a lady with crystals, with cards of fate sprawled out, waiting to be chosen. The few minutes that I had with her felt like years of introspection that I compromised with logic: with my Grandma being my guardian angel to grapple with my mind. It may sound cliché, but even Einstein said, “The high destiny of the individual is to serve rather than the rule.” To say a few minutes would be able to persuade me to see perspectives that I wish I could've gotten before. The mountains I was carrying were only meant to be climbed, and I felt at ease. As if the void had been filled as if my grandma was there with me - hand in hand on my way to becoming a young Sunflower from an Impatiens. I knew I’d rather let the aura colors paint my life into a gamut of hope than let my rational thinking dull the quintessence of living. Positive thinking is a gradual process; it will take time. And at that point, I knew I'd be okay with that. Waking up happy one day turned into being grateful, accepting, and more complete with every rotation of this planet. In this cosmos of life, I felt a new star forming and was able to see the supernova of an old one.