Every person has a creative side, and it can be expressed in many ways: problem-solving, original and innovative thinking, and artistic, to name a few. Describe how you express your creative side.  

I started tutoring as a timid freshman when my pre-calculus teacher asked me to help a senior classmate. Having no experience, it was incredibly frustrating. All I could do was repeatedly explain how I would solve the problems which lead nowhere. I’ve come to learn that each person has their own unique perspective when learning. As a tutor, I must find that perspective and guide them to the right place. 

Entering quarantine, I started teaching Chinese to an English-speaking class online ranging from 5-15 years old. From there, I learned to adapt to individuals rather than use a set teaching strategy; the younger ones require excitement to perform better while the older ones need more understanding and empathy. Adapting to online learning, I’d often use online whiteboards to teach my friends math/science. Through these experiences, I learned how to understand a student’s mindset through patient questioning and observations. This gave me the ability to teach concepts that follow their line of thinking, giving them an easier way to learn.

Tutoring has become an art to me, being able to creatively come up with new ways to teach on the spot. I fell in love with being able to help students in ways my teachers never could: teaching flexibly.  My practice, struggles as a self-taught student, and the knowledge I’ve accumulated over the years, enable me to ask the right questions to figure out and then teach students methods I hadn’t even previously known; catering my teaching style to each individual ensuring they feel welcome and understood. Tutoring also allows me to share the knowledge I worked hard to accumulate and learn new concepts too. I pursue this creativity through volunteer work and jobs, seeking out opportunities like The Tutoring Center and Kumon which exposes me to countless types of students. The personal connections I develop there as well as seeing my student’s success strengthens my passion for tutoring, pushing me to improve upon my methods every day. My methods of teaching are limitless and I will continue to create suitable mediums of teaching for every student I encounter.