 

Describe how you have taken advantage of a significant educational opportunity or worked to overcome an educational barrier you have faced. 

 

Starting freshman year I made it a goal to myself to become more outgoing and “step out of my shell”. I felt the best way to achieve that was to take advantage of student government, so I immediately applied. Out of 9 candidates, I was elected class treasurer. In the beginning, being a class officer was a foreign subject to me- I had no idea the movements and actions needed to fulfill my role. It was hard to adjust from being a bashful, apprehensive individual, to the image of my class. My fellow officers were already familiar with each other leaving me to feel like an outcast. However, as we made banners for spirit days, wrote scripts for skits, and held events for classmates, I slowly began to understand that caring about people’s judgments was holding me back from making new friends. I always feared being the center of attention because I didn't want people to judge aspects like the way I talk or dress. This held me back from taking on leadership roles in groups as I tended to seek validation from others. However, I slowly learned ways to relate with others such as finding similar hobbies and subjects we enjoyed in school. This revelation eased my transition from introvert to extrovert by making it easier to engage in conversations with new individuals. I also learned that you receive more praise than criticism when stepping up as a leader and the most important validation is self-appreciation. 

 

I reapplied for class office over the next years and eventually paved my way into ASB as I became known for being outgoing and willing to take on roles that no one wanted. Being ASB Vice President allowed me to host the talent show- my proudest achievement. Being the MC of a show was the epitome of stepping out of my comfort zone. It was an exhilarating experience that showed me that there was no harm in being in the spotlight. I generated a bigger sense of self-appreciation which overall boosted my confidence when faced with challenges that require a leader. 

 

While on stage I realized that I was happier when I was outside my comfort zone. It showed me that my mind makes things harder than they should be and that there's no better way to achieve a goal than to face the biggest challenges. 