Describe what ur looking for from ur college exp. 

 

“The map is not the territory”. This is such an important lesson from the American-Polish scientist Alfred Korzybski, that should serve as a guide to understanding. The inner workings of academia, the organization, and dissection of knowledge, the separation of it into small digestible parts, have allowed us to grasp what feels like a cloud but let it not be confused with the actual nature of knowledge, of the nature of nature. Knowledge resides outside of us, we mustn’t try to confine it and define its form. Even though it's overwhelming, it is important to harness this complexity. Nothing really exists on its own, everything exists in relation. Nonetheless, it’s only fair to put a tangible framework and structure to things that feel temporal and liminal. It gives us control and we need it, though this should stand in constant conversation with the “territory”, the vast landscape, this dissected piece belongs to. What we have done till now is, we have completely dissected and separated things from the whole, took them outside of their contexts, observed and speculated on them. We cannot study a hand, and forget it’s part of the body. I’m looking to explore these connections of everything and everything and am so deeply curious if we can understand things in flux, in motion, and as part of the ecosystem they belong to. I feel summoned to nourish this longing for exploration in an environment that celebrates it, such as COA. 

This is the longing of my mind, whereas that of my heart is that I’m looking for revolution, protest, and resistance. I have learned that a political act isn’t what Hannah Arendt defined as just the act of putting our bodies on the street. Self-organized communities are political, how we approach knowledge is political, living with respect to seasons, to all beings alike, and how we construct human relationships are equally political and revolutionary acts. From what it seems like from the outside, College of the Atlantic also embodies this approach.