Prompt: What would you say is your greatest talent or skill? How have you developed and demonstrated that talent over time?

 

When I was a child, pencils and pens in my household were used for solving math equations and writing essays, not for artistic endeavors. The smell of crayons and the sight of vivid variations of Picasso hung up on walls were treasures that only existed within the classroom but never at home. My parents, who worked minimum wage, emphasized academic subjects and their values in careers. 

 

My elementary and junior high years were spent secretly scribbling in spiral notebooks and making the interior of my tiny closet a mural of doodles. Any creative tool in my hand opened a world of colors, shapes, lines, and imagination. My skills were by no means good— mismatched eyes, too-long limbs, and other strange aspects were standard components of my art. 

 

An opportunity to improve presented itself in my freshman year when I enrolled in a single-semester art class where I learned that being good at art required not only skills but also mental strength. I spent long hours sketching a line just right or mixing a color into a perfect shade. Staying motivated to complete art exercises proved challenging— it was hard to feel excited when scrutinizing bland landscapes and easy to self-deprecate when a piece didn’t come out the way I desired.

 

Though improving my art proved to be initially difficult, I noticed that spending hours on a single piece and appreciating components of artwork became easier. I founded Art Clubs at my high school and at [Omitted] Community Center for young Muslim girls to spread artistic passion and encourage others in their own artistic journeys. Mine has connected my interest in drawing anatomy to biological sciences, further inspiring me to keep developing my artistic skills and creativity so that I can pursue an interest in STEM. 

 

I recently unveiled the fruit of my artistic effort to my parents. They hung my artwork on the wall, much like I wished them to do in my childhood.