Prompt- The lessons we take from obstacles we encounter can be fundamental to later success. Recount a time when you faced a challenge, setback, or failure. How did it affect you, and what did you learn from the experience?

 

The spicy aroma of a pumpkin roll pulls me into the kitchen. As I open the oven, the toasty air caresses my hungry face. It looks like a puffy pillow, I think to myself as I dust the roll with icing sugar.

 

Then I awoke from my far-off dream. 

 

The truth is I’ve made a lot of inedible monstrosities. My cakes look more like the Leaning Tower of Pisa than a decadent masterpiece. And my sourdough has a habit of rising…outside the pan and spilling into the oven. Far too often, I’ve stood dusted in flour with another not-what-the-picture-looks-like-but-at-least-it-smells-good kitchen catastrophe.

 

Yet, none were as unforgettable as the ‘Blobfish Incident.’ In seventh grade, I ambitiously decided to bake my dad a three-tier birthday cake. As my cakes emerged from the oven round and spongy, a warm smile painted across my face. I envisioned my dessert bringing my family together and filling the house with lively chatter. However, I snapped out of my short-lived dream as soon as it hit me—I had skipped an integral part of baking a tiered cake: leveling. When the time came to assemble my dessert, it was doomed. Each layer wasn’t flat, causing it to sink downwards, resembling a rather droopy Blobfish. 

 

I was gutted and embarrassed. It felt like my desserts were served on a silver platter with an “I tried” label. If Betty Crocker were around, she would’ve rolled her eyes in deep disdain and secondhand embarrassment. 

 

I felt like putting down my whisk and stashing away my apron for good.

 

But as I sat there analyzing my cake fiasco, my embarrassment turned into realization. Not every one of my desserts will look like it came straight out of a movie standing tall with pride, and that’s okay. Failure is synonymous with fear of improvement, and as it turns out, it’s an ingredient just as useful as eggs, flour, and butter. Before my kitchen catastrophe, I feared the word ‘failure’—it sounded bad, almost bitter. However, after reframing my fear of failure, I realized that every time I put on my apron—even if I encounter another Blobfish Incident—I’m armed with more knowledge than before. 

 

The Blobfish Incident, along with other kitchen mishaps, have taught me so much that I use them as guiding principles for my other interests. When I began conducting research in Dr. X’s microbiology lab, the concepts were foreign to me. What was a plasmid? How can enzymes magically cut it in certain spots? Then, I remembered the Blobfish. If I couldn’t become an expert baker overnight, how was I supposed to become an expert researcher overnight? This helped me internalize how working at the lab wouldn’t be smooth sailing, but if I embraced failure, it would pave a path for me to become a better researcher.

 

While I acknowledge I’m no Buddy Valastro from Cake Boss, I don’t let that dissuade me from continuing to bake. In fact, my love for it has only grown. It’s a medium of connecting with my family and peers in school. Cinco de Mayo Spanish fiesta? I’ll make the churros! Morning before the AP Exam? I’ll bring the batter to cook pancakes in class! In my personal cookbook, there’s only one essential ingredient to baking–the willingness to try. I’d rather take a risk and endure a sequel to “Dad’s Birthday Cake: Gone Wrong” than begrudgingly pluck a premade dessert off the shelf. 

 

Learning from my failures only makes life sweeter (pun intended). I’ve come a long way from the former monstrosities I’ve made, and I’m glad I never put down the whisk. I’ll continue to care deeply for my little puffs and pies, and you’ll still find me kneading sourdough in the wee hours of the morning. When the timer counts down, I’ll stand eager with my oven mitts, ready to embrace whatever comes out of the oven. 