How could a man dabble in darkness when he has seen the light?  Such a person couldn’t be considered a man if this is what they subject their life to. To be hedonistic and sin for temporary numbness. Those were my thoughts after cheating on my girlfriend. A man who committed such acts is no man, but in hopes of redemption, I inscribe my crimes for all to witness.

We hit the ground running there, didn’t we? As such, we must go into the past to understand my fall and subsequent salvation. For clarity, hedonism is the pursuit of sensual pleasure to its absolute extreme. Now, let us go back to February, my damnation. I had just come first in the 400-meter dash, an important accomplishment after years of work. And so, pride filled my heart, coursing through my blood. An accursed gift, far exceeding logic, and leading to mere hypocrisy. Pride transmuted into arrogance faster than I ever ran, for my life became twisted. Trial and error, improvement, and success elevated me. But pride precedes the fall, and so I fell into base methods of self-indulgence. Have you felt it before, dear reader?  Guilt clutches your chest as you become content and give up entirely, refusing to go further. Backtracking and mindlessly blocking out problems with false gold to feign happiness. In my case, pride whispered lies, saying anything was possible, and challenging me to do the impossible. And I listened, lying in madness, romantically involved with another woman.

Before continuing, we must cover the aforementioned women in my life. Let me preface by saying this; None mentioned are at fault for my crimes. By my hand alone, I drove into damnation. Now, I had known my girlfriend for years, and in that time, she challenged me to be the best of my essence. If not for her, I wouldn’t have joined track, let alone excelled at it. The other girl, in the most respectful way possible, was just merely physical attraction. The initial notion of cheating was rejected as nothing more than insanity and vile pestilence. But, disgustingly, my soul was degraded until an ember of hope remained. 

As expected, this isn’t my first confession, for what was left of my soul became guilt.  Dragging my body against corruption, I expounded my crimes to my partner. But instead of rage, I found sadness and remorse. A flower in a dying forest, still imbuing beauty in the world.  Hearing those words of confusion and seeing tears like rainfall, my ember grew to a blaze. In the light, whatever twisted thoughts lingering in my mind was reduced to ashes. 

 “Pride is not the opposite of shame, but its source. True humility is the only antidote to shame.” My guilt would turn into hopes and demands for a better future. I cried out against pride, for it would hold me no longer. We cannot be consigned to our failures out of fear of further failing. All we can do is keep moving forward.