Think about an academic subject that inspires you. Describe how you have furthered this interest inside and/or outside of the classroom. 

I used to sob over the abacus (Chinese counting tool) worksheets containing hundreds of complex arithmetic equations but then happily go play my favorite game Set (a pattern card game). To me, math was a useless exercise, forced upon me by my tiger parents; patterns though, were almost like magic, allowing me to guess the future. Dark clouds? Rain. Unrelenting rain? Floods. I was fascinated by how simple patterns could model everyday events. 

It wasn’t until my second year in high school that I made the connection between the math that I abhorred and the patterns I loved. Math isn’t about the numbers, it’s about the representation of the numbers, a language of patterns, unlocking our ability to guarantee things in a world that isn’t certain. The math I developed purely for my parents became a key to the patterns I crave. From then, I started to explore every single class that utilizes math, seeking to find the patterns that would blow 10-year-old me’s mind. I signed up for every single STEM AP class that I had access to. spending countless hours contacting community colleges and filling out requirement forms just to pursue the classes I wanted. In every class, I’d constantly stay back to ask questions, attempting to fulfill my endless curiosity about the world around me. With each answer to a question, dozens more popped up. 

However, through all those classes, none of them sparked my curiosity as much as the YouTube algorithm. A marvelous, complex creation that has entrapped me in the world of statistics. Every day, my YouTube homepage has endless videos on statistics and probability videos that I’m addicted to. I’ve found statistics to be like art— a beautiful complex web of information with hidden meanings. I distinctly remember one made by ‘Vsauce2’ who described how the art of statistics was able to overwhelmingly prove the guilt of a nurse who was a serial killer. This video is merely one of many that continue to blow my mind, showing the versatility and power of simple patterns that math can unlock. From the most unexpected place, I found my passion, an application of math that allows me to analyze and explain the patterns I’m obsessed with.