When I finally got to school, after avoiding all the mulberry trees on my way, Mrs. Asqari handed me a paper: "Your request was approved. Just sign here." Suddenly, a gigantic white insect fluttered around the room, locked its 12000 mini eyes into mine, flew toward me, and slammed itself into my face. I sighed as it settled down, with its head brushing against my forehead and its long antennas occasionally tickling my temples. It was hungry again. My debilitating dread of butterflies and failure was eating me alive. It started when my 2nd-grade teacher handed me the class project in a shoe box, reminding me to feed them fresh mulberry leaves daily and that I could only keep five cocoons for my report. The rest had to go through a torturous process to become about ten percent of a necktie. I asked about a better way to make silk, and Mrs. Beyk shrugged: "I'm sure scientists will find one." What Mrs. Beyk didn't mention after receiving my award-winning report on silkworms' lifecycle was its ending. The newly hatched moths didn't have the wingspan to lift or functional mouthparts to eat. Soon, the shoe box became a graveyard for their white and delicate bodies, depicting their failure and my incompetence. A depiction that began as a tiny white thing humming in my ear to leave the choir team after messing up once, to quit blogging after not winning the "best blogger" twice, or to throw away my book after the first publisher rejected me, and became more of a greedy giant every time. Quitting seems logical when a huge moth is pressing its thorax on your nose, trying to feed on your fear of failure, and when Mrs. Asqari asked me to sign the final form to skip my junior year, it showed up to feast again. Or so it thought. I either surrender and let it devour me or lift it off my face to avoid it. The thought of its segmented and cold body pummeling against my hand, trying to get back to my face, and making a horrid sound with every movement makes me shiver. Yet I held it in my sweaty palms for a year, showing up weekly to soccer practice but never making the team. Or when we couldn't afford my robotics class anymore, and I was rejected eighteen times before finding a job. But this time, I needed to do more than temporary avoidance. It wasn't about graduating early or self-studying a grade. It was about killing a butterfly. I picked up the white monster, gave it a good look, and signed the paper. During the next two and a half months, as I learned how to learn and be disciplined, my fear of failure became less of a giant and intimidating butterfly and more of a tiny and manageable moth. I had a new yearning for adventures and learning after getting rid of that parasite feeding on my brain and teaching myself a year's worth of knowledge in the summer. I participated in Nanotechnology Olympiad, not caring about the results as long as I satisfied this novel hunger. But it only made me hungrier. So I thought of a risky study abroad plan, searching for a place where my questions don't get shrugged, and maybe becoming the scientist making Silk Nanofibers to save a trillion silkworms yearly. The moth is still there, though it can't block my vision anymore and has a symbiosis relationship with my new risk-taking abilities. I couldn't stretch the silk moths' wings to help them fly, but I could drive myself beyond my fears and insecurities, learn to deal with failure, and not flinch when passing mulberry trees. Unlike my deceased butterflies, breaking out of the cocoon with a pair of broken wings isn't the end for me. I can make new wings and teach myself how to fly.