Recount a time when you faced a challenge, setback, or failure. How did it affect you, and what did you learn from the experience?”

 

 

I have hiked the Grand Canyon without fear, tackled 300 ft roller coasters without screaming, survived Ohio winters without shivering, and watched The Notebook without shedding a tear, among other things. 

 

Life drew the line for me at baking. The simple act of combining eggs, flour, sugar, and butter to create a delectable masterpiece is beyond my grasp. I fail more times than I succeed. 

 

When my dad decided to end his five-year experiment with a gluten-free diet on his birthday, my family and I were thrilled because we could finally eat meals together again! In my excitement, I got this thought: I really want to bake my dad a three-tier cake—from scratch.  

 

On the big day, my cakes emerged from the oven with a toasty vanilla color and a fragrant aroma. Shortly after I beamed with delight, panic set in—I realized I had skipped an integral part of baking a tiered cake: leveling! As I was assembling the layers of my cake, gravity worked against me. Each uneven layer came crumbling down, and my cake ended up resembling a droopy blobfish. My dream of bringing my family together with a tasty dessert vanished just like that.

 

I was so embarrassed by my failure that I decided to take a few weeks off from baking to absorb what went wrong. During that time, I realized I was tying my self-worth to my baking success. When I discovered baking was a weakness of mine, I felt like quitting. But, I came to understand some activities, like baking, bring me enjoyment, whether I’m good at them or not. 

 

Ultimately, I decided to continue to bake because it brings me joy, even though I’m far from an expert. I acknowledge I’m no Buddy Valastro from Cake Boss, and I don’t let this discourage me from baking. I’ve learned to become comfortable with the process of learning in the face of struggle. Now, I dabble in hobbies simply for the joy of it all and to feed my curiosity.

 

The so-called “Blobfish Incident” shifted my mindset immensely, and I now consider enjoyment to be a guiding principle when pursuing other interests. When I began conducting research in Dr. X’s Microbiology lab, the concepts were foreign to me. What was a plasmid? How can enzymes magically cut it in certain spots? Whenever I became overwhelmed, I remembered the blobfish cake. I needn’t be an expert in research to enjoy it. What I love most about research is that it stretches my mind and causes time to melt away, just like when I am baking.

 

Since my Blobfish Incident, my love for the quirky chemistry of the kitchen has only grown. It’s a medium of connecting with my family and peers. Cinco de Mayo Spanish fiesta? I’ll make churros! Morning before the AP Exam? I’ll bring the batter to cook pancakes in class! In my personal cookbook, there’s only one essential ingredient to baking—the willingness to try. 

 

Indulging in baking for my enjoyment only makes life sweeter (pun intended). I’ve come a long way from the former monstrosities I’ve made, and I’m glad I never put down the whisk. No matter the outcome, I’ll continue to care deeply for my little puffs and pies, and you’ll still find me kneading sourdough in the wee hours of the morning. When the timer counts down, I’ll stand eager with my oven mitts, ready to embrace whatever comes out of the oven.