Describe an example of your leadership experience in which you have positively influenced others, helped resolve disputes, or contributed to group efforts over time. (350)

Standing front and centered behind the counter, neck barely peaking over, I handed the immigration officer the documents they asked of my parents. Examining each page, stamped, and handed back each one, "you are good to go". Sigh of relief as this weight of responsibility was lifted off me for today. The designated spokesperson for my family everytime we step into the USCIS or any building in the states. As I become the channel of navigation for my parents when we moved, I absorbed things in quick before I was able to relay the message back to them.

This kickstarted my ability to remain calm and adjust myself in place of others to better understand the situation.

As years come by, distant relatives begin to immigrate as well. While my parents assisted in getting them adjusted to the lifestyle, my responsibilities were to check up on the children to get them accommodate to the school work and system. With the knowledge I had, I began to tutor them every week. The materials were easily grappled when they understood what needed to be done through the clarifications I had given. My methodology were to allow them to infer based on context, application of concepts onto the assignments, and then moving forward to reviewing the work together. I find that not interfering with their exploration enables the students to fearlessly take on challenges. However, still showing them support and assurance as we discuss the thought process.

As I volunteered at my local recreational center, I found a sense of familiarity in my position as recreational leader during the kids summer sport camp. I was placed with training the younger soccer teams to have down the basic skills before moving on to the next stage. It was difficult as they were easily distracted by other students. But with patience and allowing them to go at their own pace, students are more comfortable participating in a cultivated relaxed environment. For me, being a leader means becoming a beacon of guidance while also shining light on others.