My application for law school is driven by a lifelong enjoyment for helping others. In grade
school, my heart broke for one girl. She often smelled and wore dirty, torn clothing. I wanted to help her
fit in, so I packed up some of my clothing and discreetly offered them to her after school. Throughout
middle school, I volunteered as a tutor in the special education room. In high school, when my parents
became foster parents, I eagerly poured my energy into those children. My drive to protect those more
vulnerable than me has always been present.
I was 14 when two filthy, flea-bitten children arrived at our home, etching the sight and smell of
neglect in my memory. They reminded me of the girl from my grade school. That first night, while
helping my mother, a pair of dark, angry eyes glared at us and declared, "if you fing hit my sister, I'll
fing kill you." Hiding my shocked expression, I listened as my mom reassured her we didn't hit. I
participated in their healing by giving them back their power. We gave them choices surrounding clothing
and food and by asking permission before hugging them. Eventually, they were adopted by a relative, and
the next child to arrive was a teen mom. From then on, my parents fostered adolescent girls, often already
mothers, allowing me to see how complicated that path was.
At 19, I moved into a house, applied for a foster care license, and soon accepted placements.
Within the year, A.P.(13m) the brother of one of my foster sisters (C.P.), was placed in my home. I cared
for him until his violent outbursts had me afraid, making parenting near impossible. Feeling like a failure,
I asked DCFS to find him another home. I now see that the situation of a 19-year-old girl parenting a
violent boy of 14 was untenable. I firmly believe the foster system should not have allowed that
placement. After A.P., I only accepted girls. Three years later, four teenage girls were in my care. I was in
over my head, felt burned out, and was struggling in my personal life. Without the support or training
needed, I left foster parenting but maintained contact with the P family.
To the children of C.P. and A.P., I was family. Worried about the conditions in A.P.'s home, I
showed up with gifts and food for the children's birthdays and holidays. I wanted them to know there was
an adult who would listen. I was at their house often, and my bond with A.P.'s children increased when I
started to take his girls to a sewing 4-H group. A.P. told the children I was his sister, and they called me

 