It started with an eccentric and quite honestly bizarre Polish teacher named Mr.Uchacz; he was particularly proud to be Polish, concerningly proud... Before his class, I had maintained an intense interest in foreign affairs and world history. The pure fascination that seized me whenever I further understood the world's inner workings, past and present, was intoxicating! The processes of reality intrigue me to the fullest extent. Unsurprisingly, that captivation perfectly transferred into AP Biology.

Instead of the macro, a world at large with countries and affairs, I learned the micro, a body at large with cellular and biochemical components. At first, I anticipated the same boring ecology units jumbled with a "the mitochondria is the powerhouse of the cell," a lack of depth that has always bored me. Color me shocked when, while toasting a bagel with a blow torch, my teacher presented us with a lesson on SARS-CoV2's receptor-binding domain and glycoproteins. As to what he was talking about, no one knew. I wouldn't expect anyone reading this to understand what they are, and I'd be lying if I acted like I even had a grasp of them!

I don't think anyone ever understood what he was instructing. With such a riveting curriculum at hand, I quickly developed an incessant desire to understand him. Proteins thoroughly captured my interest; such remarkable function can be derived from infinitely diverse combinations of amino acids, from hair to the metabolism of medications. I try to explain said remarkable function to my family, perhaps obsessively. I can't help it, I just love proteins. How anyone wouldn't find globular vs. structural proteins fascinating beats me! I love how they fit into the equation of life, how everything can be explained by the function of a protein, and how I, one day, will hopefully be able to map how nothing more than a string of amino acids can create the fibrous structure of skin, enzymatically metabolize alcohol, replicate DNA, and currently most fascinating to me, receptor proteins detecting light. I would implore Mr. Uchacz's mind for all these answers and sometimes even wear him out. He'd pronounce my name as Yusef, yelling in his all too familiar constantly, energetic voice, "Go, Go, Yusef, next class now!" he had the spirit of so many eastern Europeans I've met- there is no topic too odd to not discuss, all of such discussions impossible to explain the context of.

With Mr.Uchacz's guidance, I realized there was something acutely profound to the chemistry of life. I was enticed, and by the hand of his eventful teachings, I soared through the class. It was peculiar; I've never been much of an academic previously, and when I initially realized the rigor of Ap bio, I tried to drop the class! I'm so happy I didn't. It ignited something in me. That class and that teacher sent me on a path I can't describe the significance of. A fortunate stroke of serendipity that changed my life and propelled me forward. To this day, I've continued to use the allure of biological sciences as a propellant, even in this essay. I could be out with friends, but the opportunity of formal education in biochemistry is a motivation unlike that of anything else I've experienced. I am an academic, and with the rigor of a topic I was infatuated with, I found my love for learning- an opportunity I'm grateful to have and ecstatic to continue.