Some students have a background, identity, interest, or talent that is so meaningful they believe

their application would be incomplete without it. If this sounds like you, then please share your

story.

 

As a child, I was never really home. I was either moving houses too many times to consider, or I

was primarily in houses that were not mine. Most of my childhood can be summed up to me

sweeping the floor and my mother cooking in different people’s homes. With no relatives and no

money for a babysitter, I was her “child-like assistant“ and she was a CNA. During Thanksgiving

when families eat together in the presence of their homes, I was eating with my mother’s

patient. During patients’ birthdays, I would write health and happiness on cards and sing happy

birthday to them with just my mother and I. Being with patients with families who were not there

for them, made me begin to inquire that they could be the family I had never had. A blind man

named Raymond, sang happy birthday with an echo, played in a band, and enjoyed music.

Raymond would always go to my Christmas concerts in middle school. Undoubtedly, my mother

and I felt the stares from my fellow middle school classmates. Still during that time, my chest

had heaved with gratefulness. Seeing another person cheering for me, while helping their lives

become more eventful felt satisfying. Linking my arm with his, I guided him to our car.

Growing older, needing a babysitter was not necessary. Instead of being my mother’s “child-like

assistant,” I began to train for the same job as hers. I trained in a nursing home throughout this

process, I got my CNA license, and began to work for a patient during the weekdays after

school. Throughout this process, I was also not really home. My days consisted of going to

school for 8 hours a day, to working my CNA job till night time. On weekends I would work a

retail job, and working exceedingly became a routine that I was always used to. I was used to

seeing my mother work two jobs: a job as a CNA and a job as a parent.

Despite being used to working extensively, I was exhausted. Many nights were full of

completing homework for classes and not enough leisure time. My home was just another

library, study space, or a place to sleep. My house had never felt like home ever since I was

young.

As a result my mother began to notice a change in my disposition. Holding my tired face in her

hands she explained, “I know you have seen me work your entire life, you worked with me,

never complained, and got the same job as me, but as your mother I need to see you have

taken care of yourself.” Surprisingly, I had cried on her hands that enveloped my face, and I

knew I was at my limit. I began to learn why my mother always asked me to write health and

happiness on her patients&#39; birthday cards to a deeper understanding. I needed to take care of

myself.

Physically I was never really home as a child, I confided in others to be my home. The people I

saw everyday during my mother’s job and every weekday are my home, my mother is my home.

Throughout my life being used to something is what I had considered home. I confide in working

 

to be my home but as I am growing older, I have also learned to confide in myself to be my

home.