Please provide a statement that addresses your reasons for transferring and the objectives you hope to achieve.

 

Carl Rogers in his book “On Becoming a Person” mentioned that the learnings he deems most valuable and that hold the most authority over him, come from his experience. What I believe he’s referring to isn’t the learnings you acquire through the mind, by reading, but the ones that hold truths that exceed verbalization, learnings that encapsulate the body. A myriad of reasonings aren’t more powerful than a felt sense of knowing. It’s the feeling of truth that make these learnings true to him. I may attempt to find all the reasons in the world as to why I want to transfer to COA, but just like Carl Rogers, to me the most important is that I feel called to it. I stumbled upon the college in what was a desperate hyper-link moment trying to look for alternative ways of living together, which led me to the 60’s Hippie Movement, which then led me to COA. My heart warmed up instantly as I was content for the mere existence of the college. The idea that it might one day be possible for me to even apply felt very distant and out of reach, but through a lot of encouragement by friends because they were happy that what I what I was looking for exists, so I decided to try my luck. My experience showed me that when things present to you in times of need, you should always take notice.

What I also learned is that there’s no one person capable to lead and decide the fate of a people. My belief is that we can only organize together, there’s no higher authority other than the people and their land. My body and whole being knows this, I witness and live it everyday. I’m apart of a self-organized community in my hometown, where we together make decisions and hold events, discussions, workshops which are based on mutual aid and inclusivity. It feels like it’s very similar in principle to what COA stands for, so my being there would be a sort of more formal, more intentional, extension of my current reality. 

Each one of us has a specific experience, just like how each flower needs a different amount of water and sunlight and soil. Hence, because of these individual bubbles of reality, we should also pursue a tailored path of education. What I hope is to be nurtured with just the right amount of sun and water and care, that i hope to find at COA, so I can bloom properly.