Students in Arts and Sciences embrace the opportunity to delve into multifaceted academic interests, embodying in 21st century terms Ezra Cornell’s “any person…any study” founding vision. Tell us about the areas of study you are excited to explore, and specifically why you wish to pursue them in our College. (Approximately 650/650 words)

 

 

I finished my paper on ‘Black Hole Stability and Horizon Thermodynamics’ yesterday night and to say that I am eager for today’s lecture would be an understatement. I remember experiencing the same feeling of anticipation the day after I had submitted a self-initiated article titled, ‘Escaping a Black Hole’, to headline the physics section of our school magazine a year ago.

I exit the discourse session for my PHYS 2208 course in the nick of time and proceed for the class I have been itching to go to the entire day. The walk, or rather the haywire sprint to the Space Sciences Building, is a familiar one; afterall, I had been frequenting the building on a regular basis for the Salpeter Lecture Series the previous week. It’s 2:38 PM and I’m actually early to my ASTRO 4431 lecture on ‘Neutron Stars’ with Professor Ira Wasserman. Well, that’s a first.

 Explaining the spin evolution of young neutron stars, he asks, “How can the loss of angular momentum be used as a mechanism for achieving spin rates inferred for young pulsars?” I immediately relate this postulation to the concept of r-mode instability explored in his research. Unraveling the intricacies of spin behavior, he amplifies my fascination with the enigma that is the resplendent universe and heightens my already biased preference towards Astrophysics.

I stop by my independent research instructor, Professor Dong Lai’s, office to quickly drop off the research I had conducted ten months ago on Astrophysical Fluid Dynamics for review before moving on with my day.

The next stop is the Center for Astrophysics and Planetary Sciences where attention is accentuated on research initiatives. 

Working with Professor Saul Teukolsky as a member of the Numerical Relativity Group, I have been researching mergers of binary systems. We have been trying to discover exotic pulsars, primarily the ones with an unusually high spin evolution. My cognizance and interaction with this concept, thanks to my high-school research paper on gravitational waves, was leaning towards the theoretical sphere but using FDAS is an inimitable experience to delve further into computational astrophysics. 

I also discuss the specifics of the amateur astronomy club I am in the midst of founding in collaboration with ‘Ask an Astronomer’ with Professor Teukolsky and introduce all the ideas I have for its execution.

I am meeting up with Sana, a senior who I interacted with while shortlisting my universities at Okenshields to grab supper. Dave, being the ever-courteous human that he is, flashes us his famed smile and asks us about our day. Time flies as we converse and before I know it, I have to leave for debate practice.

As I walk into the room for the CSD program’s mock BP session, I am met with the expected concoction of familiar voices. Ah, they’re playing the disagreement game again. It has rapidly become the warm-up game of choice since the day I first introduced it. After listening to a few statement contentions, I conclude that they are debating the relevancy of the offside rule in soccer. Glancing to my right, the niche nature of the motion becomes explicable; Assistant Director Matthew Ibeike-Jonah is acting as today’s moderator. 

Um, sorry I’ll be late to the mixer, I have to meet with my CUSD team first to strategize and build on the idea I had submitted to the British International Education Association for developing sustainable cities. I’ll see you at the Willard Straight Hall tomorrow.

This is a glimpse of a typical day in my life at Cornell University. The dichotomy between the facet of my personality that advocates for physics and philosophy and the facet that reveres declamation and discourse mirrors the multiplicity that is celebrated at Cornell. Poised at the intersection of diverse fields, my ideology aligns with that of Cornell. A quest that celebrates musing and fabrication of abstract theories and helps me palliate my eternal curiosity.