I was used to being taken care of. When I was five, my father went abroad for his job. My brother soon left home too to continue his further studies. Said that, it was just me and mom at home. While I occasionally did feel the absence of a father figure around me, mom didn’t really put me in a situation to ask for anything more. I’d often come home from a long day at school and rush to the kitchen to find mom making my favourite wai wai noodles. She’d always put a jar full of almonds in my room, scolding me to eat them already. When I finished one jar, another was immediately prepared to take its place. It was due to her that I never had to worry about taking care of myself. 

 

Things took a turn when I had to move to a different city for my further studies. Dad had already returned home by the time I left. However, because I didn't spend much time with him, I never developed a strong bond with him. As I was shown to my room at a private boys'      hostel in a city where I knew no one, I felt terrified. Not seeing a jar full of almonds in my room felt weird. Not seeing mom nearly everyday felt scary. I couldn’t tell if I was homesick or scared to live on my own.

 

The initial days were terrifying. I’d often sit on the floor of my hostel room staring at the ceiling whilst listening to Green Day’s “Boulevard of Broken Dreams”. I began writing a diary to express myself in some way. As I put my feelings into words, I gradually felt the weight of loneliness wash off my shoulders and sink into those notebook pages. However, that wasn't all I required to banish that sense of emptiness.

 

Days progressed and I started going to my new school. Gradually, I made some new friends. Realizing how I am not alone every time I went to school set my heart at ease. I started exploring the new city and tried foods I had never eaten before. Meanwhile, I taught myself things. With no urge to bother mom, I turned to different youtube tutorials to learn how to do laundry, use an ATM card, fold clothes, and cut fruits properly. I bought a new jar and filled it with almonds regularly. I even mastered the art of making wai wai noodles. At first, it didn't resemble anything my mother made. Regular practice helped me get there quickly. I embraced this self-reliance.

 

I wasn’t listening to “Boulevard of Broken Dreams” anymore; it was replaced by Bill Withers’ “A Lovely Day”. Meanwhile, I developed a profound interest in traveling and stargazing. It was visiting all those iconic tourist attractions in the city that made me realize how traveling helps me find my inner peace. I began compiling a booklet out of the pages in my scrapbook, listing all the places I wanted to visit in the future. The booklet grew thicker over time, just as my desire to travel the globe did.

 

 I would frequently rush to the terrace at midnight with my binoculars to view the stars and the moon. I could hear my own heartbeat in the stillness of the night, and the mesmerizing beauty of the universe inspired me to succeed in life so that I could continue gazing at the night sky even after ten years. 

As I stand here today, I realize how I still haven’t lived my life enough. I still haven’t hiked Half Dome in Yosemite or seen the Northern lights. I still haven’t done something I can benefit the world and its people from. To do that is what I am here for.

 

From having my mother arrange a jar of almonds to now doing it myself every day, I grew up.