Please describe how you have prepared for your intended major, including your readiness to succeed in your upper-division courses once you enroll at the university. (350)

The pursuit of business had been unknowingly set in motion since early adolescence. My father would pick me up during his lunch hours and let me tag along in the office until it is time to go home. Often enough, I ended up knowing everyone's name and their responsibilities around the office. It was exhilarating for nosy ten year old me to hear someone walk in and discuss business as usual, thinking "what will it be this time?". Seeing my father give his briefings with the others had tempted me to join in and give my two cents. Now given my own opportunity to do so within the rigorous academic settings, I thoroughly understand the importance of open mindedness and communication in order to achieve what needs to be accomplished. Learning with others under the same academic discipline has allowed me to broaden my approach on the subject.

I had taken the business class that my high school had offered, well-knowned for the unique learning environment. The subject was thoroughly enjoyable and insightful from the materials to guest speakers coming into class. From then on, I developed a thrill in learning about the industry. With the business fundamentals I had acquired, I found a way that I could develop my hobby of sewing into a small business. Through the app Depop, I was introduced to the world of fashion, transactions, and negotiation. In selling my handmade accessories and old clothes, I felt a sense of accomplishment and eagerness to venture further in the business world.

At community college, I continued on attending business related seminars and workshops as it has become a way of my approach in building connections whilst exchanging insights with my peers and mentors. Additionally, having taken courses that are focused on my major has prepared me well in understanding the management of a business for optimal performance and establishing relations with consumers and partners. Eventually, I would hope to be able to advance this knowledge through the upper-division courses and connect more with professionals at University of California.