 

Growing up in a family of entrepreneurs exposed me early on to different business sectors, such as sales and real estate. This gave me the unique opportunity to observe how companies have developed digitally over the past ten years: real estate firms' entire sale and financing has been completely reorganised by implementing new IT systems. My fascination with said progression stimulated me to research this trend. Reading "Driving Digital'' by Isaac Sacolick challenged my understanding of the complexity and importance of IT integration in firms. I was exposed to challenges beyond digital business transformation, such as needing a strategy to digitalise the entire value chain whilst further adapting managerial approaches to provide the workforce with a sustainable transition. 

My multicultural upbringing in a Russian household whilst living in Germany, Spain, and Dubai fueled my curiosity to evaluate and compare firms and business cultures on a global scale. I felt driven to gain more practical insight into the marriage of business and IT and the differences in business approaches of different world regions, leading me to complete two internships in Berlin and Dubai. I interned at GABC, a business centre which advises companies looking to expand to Dubai and at Maxar AG, a successful real estate developer in Germany. At GABC, I learned that digitalising communications with banks and regulatory authorities in the UAE attracted firms due to process efficiency. My analytical adaptation of business plans to different regions stimulated my problem-solving, analysis and adaptability skills due to each business requiring unique approaches. At Maxar AG, my team-working and critical thinking skills were enhanced by collaborating with a team of diverse, experienced employees. Being responsible for supporting the maintenance and handling of databases whilst analysing complex finance analytics for construction projects taught me the importance of generating revenue-leveraging digital capabilities for improved clarity and workflow between departments. I witnessed how implementing new software could speed up the process of the realisation of construction projects in Germany to approximately three months instead of one year. Through my perseverance, self-motivation, and commitment, I have earned unique insight into differing business practices in the East and the West whilst stimulating my global awareness. My fluency in German, Spanish, Russian and English makes me a great communicator across linguistic borders, opening opportunities for future international endeavours and networking. Furthermore, collaborative planning of new projects with employees cultivated my confidence in communicating my ideas. This has positively affected my academic performance, allowing me to explain complex theories when tutoring business and computing students in my free time. 

My proactivity led me to complete online courses, such as Harvard's programming course, which developed my problem-solving skills in a virtual environment. Simultaneously managing the workload of four A-Levels and my extracurricular work built upon my time management and self-discipline skills, an asset for grasping more complex concepts during my undergraduate studies. Recognising the misinformation spread within the sports community, I displayed initiative by creating a business startup based on scientific research and interviews conducted beforehand. I coded an application tailored to the requests of personal trainers, reflecting my ability to apply knowledge to practical scenarios and develop successful solutions to analysed market gaps. I am excited to further explore the relationship between traditional business strategies and technology, whilst harnessing my proven entrepreneurial mindset and creativity to improve the management of IT in business. My motivation, personal skills, and determination to grow as an individual will undoubtedly make me a strong scholar at your institution.