I have always been an extremely curious person. While growing up, I would often bombard family
members with questions about completely unrelated topics, ranging from what an equation is, to the
landing on the moon. I considered my curiosity a gift that allowed me to be interested in learning complex
things despite my age. When new mathematical operations or a historical event were taught at school, I
often had an idea of what it was because of my inquisitiveness. However, as I grew older, the education
system started to require objectivity. As I got closer to forcefully deciding what I would major in university,
my varied interest started to become a curse
Often asked “What is my favorite subject in school?”, I never knew what to answer. Although
History classes might have been more interesting than Physics in a given month, I enjoyed them all.
While having some delight in different subjects made school more tolerable, seeing my friends being
certain about which class was their favorite, and which one they hated, was difficult. Not because I
wanted to hate a subject, but because at the same time, I watched them choose what career they wanted
to pursue, while I could not narrow it down.
My curiosity as a kid became a desire for knowledge. I wanted to know more about anything I
could. It frustrated me that I was unable to course many different subjects. I watched my "to read books”
pile grow bigger as schoolwork required more of my free time. Sometimes, I wanted to watch YouTube
videos about biological evolution, but had to memorize organic chemistry functions for a test. I found
myself studying interesting themes, such as the Spanish Civil War, but not with the depth that I wanted. 
I observed the education system guiding students to be a part of the workforce, directing us to
subjects that we would succeed in, completely disregarding the true function of knowledge, and gradually
accepted I wouldn't be able to know as much as I wanted to. I felt that almost any career would suit me,
but not a single one of them was sufficient, as I would always be interested in a major that I was not
coursing. 
Yet, I realized that was not caused exclusively by my willfulness to learn more. It was a larger
issue: the system in which I study does not reward curiosity, as it rewards objectivity. The thousands of
classes that addressed numerous topics, but never deepened them, made me read, learn and do
research independently. I learned German autonomously because I wished to understand, even slightly,
the original books from 19th-century authors. I learned the Theory of Relativity because not learning it in
school made Physics feel insufficient. Finding alternatives to learn independently showed me how the
educational system failed me: I wasn't guided to intellectual development, but to a superficial role in the
capitalist system.
However, by understanding that, I can find ways to uncurse my curiosity. I had to decide a
specific major. But it will not be as harmful as it felt before. University will be an environment that, with

research programs, elective classes, and student organizations, will assist me in the acquisition of
knowledge, rather than limiting me to what my major has to offer.
Life is made of choices. And I learned, while deciding my major, that making choices is painful.
Any choice will make you wonder what would have happened if you chose the other option. I have
acquired experience in dealing with this uneasiness. I now understand that prioritizing objectivity during
my time in university will not stop me from finding ways to satisfy my childish curiosity. By learning new
languages, getting in contact with other cultures, or reading a good book, I hope to be an adult enriched
by the knowledge that I have and not limited by the knowledge I wish to obtain.