 

It came in a box with stickers and labels all over, but I paid no mind - too busy anticipating

what it would look like in all of its glory. Once the preparations were done, there it stood:

colossal, ready to swallow me whole; yet what could a defenseless thirteen-year-old do

other than stare in awe at his brand-new air mattress? This homemade analogy would be my way of representing life in America.

Welcome to Sweet Home Alabama the sign read as we neared the apartments. The view was anything but to die for, the roads were bumpy, the buildings looked like they came from a dystopian novel, and people drove in cars we would call antique in the year of 2018. The

town felt so detached, unlike anything I saw when searching it up on google. That was the first time I ever slept on an air mattress.

Soon enough, the first day of American school arrived. This school was huge, way bigger than

the private school I attended previously, but I kept my expectations low, preventing me from

being tricked a second time. Everything that proceeded afterwards was the cliche of being the

new kid in class, and I believed I would befriend others just like I had countless times. That

never happened. I sat alone at lunch, got assigned partners during assignments, walked home

alone, and slept on the air mattress for days on end.

Every night I disputed with myself, worrying over how others might ridicule me for my heavy South-Asian accent and propriety. Time and again I would brush it off, reassuring myself

with the same thoughts, but this false hope could only carry me so far. Until one fateful day

where a bed took over the place of my air mattress. I didn't have to refill a bed with air every

night. I didn't have to lie to myself for self-approval.

I took initiative at my own pace, starting off by striking conversations with classmates

and cracking jokes during lunch. I didn't let school limit my involvement. I started a community soccer team with my neighbors, which recently celebrated its 4-year anniversary. Subconsciously, I was growing accustomed to this life: putting ice cubes into everything I drink, smiling at

strangers, and writing the date wrong. I learned to acknowledge this reform within, embracing it

as I dozed off on my open-frame bed.

Now, 4 years later, I have moved states and made even more bonds. I am proud of my

conviction in placing aside my beliefs to interact in an extrinsic environment. As a senior in high

school, I've steered others in similar conditions helping them find their peace. But I'm thrilled to

say it's not over as there is still so much more left for me to accomplish. I haven't tried pelnut

butter, tipping after a meal, or wearing shoes in the house. These are just a few of the many

things I look forward to in this journey of becoming American.