Twirling skirts, sweaty shirts. The faceless bodies were clashing while being flashed by beautifully clear laser lights. An electric atmosphere surrounded the house while the whole neighborhood bounced to the steady yet groovy rhythm. Inas was at the front gate receiving presents, welcoming latecomers, and reassuring concerned parents. 

 

Hours of doubt and hesitation passed before I told the DJ to play my song next. “Is she going to even like it?” I nervously asked myself while transmitting the audio file from my phone to the DJ’s laptop.

 

A loud percussion erupted, it was my song!

 

The catchy bassline started nodding heads, and the high-pitched synth leads made the birthday party go back to its normal groove, only didn’t they know, this wasn’t any normal song…

 

A strange voice disrupted the cruising electronic beat arrangement. Sounding as if it were recorded on a phone, the audio kept looping around the same phrase: “And I smile”. The crowd immediately looked at that frail body lingering in the middle of the dancefloor, dead struck by the familiarity of her voice. She threw a menacing look at me, but I grinned back. 

 

The bassline got deeper, Inas' voice memos escalated, and worried looks spun around my circle of friends, eventually settling into nods of pleasure. The build-up continued and the DJ was hyping the crowd even more. Drum fills, FX, risers, toms, everything was accumulating to one singular apex moment. And when it happened, the crowd went wild and even started shouting the main voice memo in unison. Inas was forcefully pulled into the hectic crowd, all lifting her up in the sky, and shouting her name repeatedly; her smile at that moment was so clear and pure. It was her moment; she was happy.

 

That day, I realized how much I loved creating. The act of producing something that had been thought of fascinated me.

But it wasn’t only a matter of creative pursuit; it was also about the outcome. How the crowd reacted to the song, how the energy suddenly changed, and how Inas was thrilled by my present. I suspected then that what really made me love creativity was also the impact of my creation. And while founding my first social organization, my suspicions were confirmed. 

 

In mid-2021, Morocco was still partially locked down. Unauthorized group meetings were illegal and masks were mandatory. Being as passionate about debating as I was, the social restrictions felt unbearable. I had to find another way!

So, on a great Sunday morning, I asked 4 of my best friends to join a Zoom call titled “debate organization brainstorm”. I pitched them the following idea: “what if we create an intellectual paradise? A place where Moroccan high schoolers from every socio-cultural background can join an online community of passionate young debaters!”. All were thrilled by the idea. And after eight months of chronic late group meetings, recruiting campaigns, and partnership pitching, we organized our first national competition!

 

That day, I saw 75 small cubes on my laptop screen. In each one of them appeared a talented debater, a proud Moroccan, but most importantly, a blinding light of excellence and hope for the future of our nation. It was after this milestone that I decided to rebrand the association as Wahaj, which translates to "glow" in Arabic, most specifically emitting from a flame, a dime light we believe is hidden in each young Moroccan, waiting to be transformed into an intense intellectual blaze.

 

 

Music and Wahaj taught me a lot about creativity and life in general, how beautiful innovation is, and how impactful our creations can be. While working on a new music project or debate format, the mere thought of the impact caused by my creation gives me chills, and I am certain that this is exactly what I want to become: a creative adventurer seeking to empower and positively impact whatever community I belong to. 