Imposter syndrome. When people think about this idea, they often do not know how
powerful and detrimental it is on a student of color. Many people do not know what this phrase
means. Throughout my entire life, I suffered from imposter syndrome. As an African American
woman, there were more times than not where I questioned if I was smart enough or worthy
enough to attend college. I often thought that I was lucky to be chosen to be a part of an
experience that was so competitive and did not feel that I belonged. Going to a school where
there are not many people who look like you only fans that insecurity. For a great period of time,
I strongly believed that I would never be good enough for school or amount to anything great. It
was medicine and the experiences I had in the medical field helping children that completely
eradicated this syndrome in me. I want to attend Medical School because medicine became a safe
haven and beacon of light for the little Black girl who felt that she could never amount to
anything. I want to attend Medical School because I want to be able to treat the little Black girls
in my community who are suffering from severe health conditions and diseases and who feel like
they amount to nothing, just like I did. I want to attend Medical School because I want to become
a pediatrician to help these little girls in my community.
During my first two years of undergraduate education, I struggled substantially with
school. During many instances, I was afraid to ask questions or attend office hours, because I felt
that there was no point in trying. My imposter syndrome fed me lies and often told me that I
would be nothing more than a racial stereotype rather achieving my dreams. As a woman of
color struggling with the reality of the lack of representation both at my college and in the field
that I aspire to join, I buckled under the pressure. As I saw my grades fall, I wondered if I was
truly going to be able to become a doctor. During my sophomore year of college, I had the
privilege of volunteering at the Children’s Hospital of my University. During my time
volunteering, I was able to interact with so many children and talk to their parents about their
stories and how they wished things could be different. As I stood in each hospital room watching
each of these children in their hospital beds, all I could think about was how to fix what caused
them to be in the hospital in the first place. When I volunteered, I didn’t think about how
insignificant I was or what I did not know. Every time I volunteered, all I could think about was
the amazing opportunity I had to learn and how to use what was given to me to make each child
feel better.
As time progressed and I spent more time at the Children’s Hospital volunteering and
volunteering at daycares near my school, my grades began to rise exponentially during my last
two years in college and I was able to fall in love with the sciences that came with trying to
become a doctor. I was finally able to see how my dedication to helping children in need
transformed me into the intelligent Black woman I am today. After I graduated from college, I
dedicated my time as working at University of Florida Shand’s Children’s Hospital as a Certified
Nursing Assistant. During my time in the pediatric internal medicine unit, I was able to work
with many children who were people of color as well. Even though I could not fix the third
degree burns of a six-year-old Black boy, I would always make him feel like he is king of the
world. Although I could not remove the appendix of a four-year-old Black girl, I made sure she
had a tiara on her head and held her hand before surgery to make her believe she was the
princess the doctors were awaiting. Working with these children and putting a smile on their
faces always makes me feel like I was more than enough and meant to be in the field, because I
know that I am doing something good and life changing. Having the opportunity to work in

medicine with these children fulfilled me in way that I previously had no idea existed. Medicine
gave me a place that made me feel happy about being myself and made me whole. Attending to
Medical School will provide the opportunity to not only treat children mentally and emotionally,
but also to be given tools and information to treat health issues they may have physically.
School and academics often intimidated me because of my distorted thoughts caused by
my imposter syndrome. Through helping children who looked like me and falling in love with
medicine, I was able to find my passion of wanting to treat children in my community using the
sciences that I fell in love with. I want to attend Medical School because I believe that there is no
other field that makes me feel as safe, humble, powerful, and beautiful as medicine has made me
feel. I believe that my desire to achieve my dreams of becoming a pediatrician has molded me
into the woman I am today. I am a Black woman working to break health disparities in her
community that does not have the resources to do so. I am the little Black girl who grew up and
learned her worth by helping other children who look like her in her community. I am the future
physician who will continue to combat against health disparities in her community by treating
the leaders of the future. These experiences and goals are what make me a physician standing
before you. These foundational principles will always be the reasons why I want to attend
Medical School.