Flames danced on the Virgen de Guadalupe candles and the distinctive smell of Vicks made my eyes squint. The sorrow I felt seeing my grandmother lying in bed, unable to rush and hug me as she usually did, took a toll on me. She had been very sick for a couple of days, and nothing seemed to make her feel better. Her status as an undocumented immigrant inhibited access to affordable medical care, and as a result, my family relied heavily on home remedies and over the counter medications. I have always thought how unfair it was to have limited access to such a fundamental human right. In a soft voice, she reminisced about the fun times raising me as though it were her last words. I held my grandmother's hand and we said a prayer together. Every few days, I brought her flowers and helped her with house chores to brighten her day a little more. I realized the act of providing comfort to someone can be more powerful than any available drug or medication at times. My interest in healthcare would eventually be sparked by this experience and by the disparities that people face in healthcare has motivated me to pursue it.
Having devalued education in earlier years, I never planned on going to college. When I was younger, I fell upon confirmation bias, convinced I was not smart or talented enough to succeed. I would score low in tests and get in trouble frequently. I suffered from depression for years, which undermined my ambitions and goals. After coming back home from the Army, I surrounded myself with positive and ambitious people. “Show me your friends and I’ll show you your future” became as true as it can be. I realized that everyone has the capability to accomplish anything they set their minds to, so I allowed myself to dream and create new goals. During my undergraduate years, I became fascinated with science and this changed my perception of the world. Suddenly, the human body had now become a multicellular organism which was at constant war against pathological cells and viruses. Every breath, thought and body movement consisted of billions of biological and chemical reactions happening at once, from cellular respiration to nerve synapses. The interaction and mechanisms of medication and vaccines now made sense how they worked. I no longer had to ask, “How do painkillers know where it hurts?”. A journey of discovery began for me as I searched for a career that would interest me and bring me joy.
As I contemplated what career to choose, I decided to volunteer at an underserved community hospital. The purpose of this was to learn more about what healthcare providers do and how hospitals work. Previously, I had only visited a hospital a few times since my family was uninsured, so everything was new to me. During my time there, it brought pleasure interpreting for Spanish-speaking patients and healthcare workers. Through my efforts, I helped to enhance the patient and medical staff relationship and reduce the language barrier. I observed the joy and connection that patients had with me and the volunteers as we shared their language and culture. As a bonus, it was my first encounter with a Latinx physician, which gave me a sense of hope and contentment. It was unreal to think that maybe becoming a physician could be the career choice for me. I gained a glimpse of what healthcare providers are able to do and it showed me many possible career paths I could choose from.
As an Emergency Medical Technician, I became convinced that medicine was the right career choice for me. I was fortunate to have experienced a call that showed the life changing results all healthcare workers provide. Christian was an elderly patient who had suffered from a heart attack. As soon as he was stable, the nurses and doctors entrusted us with transporting him from the hospital to his home. A welcome home party was prepared for him by his family. There were tears of joy as he arrived home. Even his daughter, whom he had not spoken to for seven years, traveled from Paris to be with him. At first hand, I had witnessed the profound impact that doctors can make in people’s lives. There is no doubt I wished that I had been part of the remarkable team that was able to heal him and enable him to continue living. Ever since, I have yearned for the knowledge and skills of a physician to positively impact patients because I have felt limited with the scope of practice I have. The most meaningful thing I remember about Christian is that he demonstrated to me that every patient has a family who cares for them in the same manner as I care for my grandmother. As a result of this experience, I am reminded that every patient, regardless of their background, deserves to receive equal medical care.
The lack of a parent and growing up in an economically disadvantaged environment makes me statistically less likely to graduate college. Among professionals and successful people on television, I have had a difficult time relating and finding ones who look like me or have experienced a similar life as mine. Having grown up in a household where my family did not attend high school and where we had to immigrate to a different country for asylum has shaped my view of life. It is unfair that children grow up thinking they cannot accomplish something based on where they grew up or who they are. Because of my experience, I am motivated to become a role model and inspire others who are in my shoes to pursue their dreams. In my role as a physician, I desire to serve as a bridge between ethnic minority groups and the direct medical care they can receive. I want to stop the spread of misinformation and discrepancies in medicine among minority communities and advocate for those who have limited access to healthcare. Despite the odds against me, I continue to break barriers and ever since I set my dream and goal of pursuing medicine, I have already accomplished more than I could have imagined as a child.  