I walked in and found my dad sorting through my sister, who at the time was in the US’s belongings. “we need to talk” he explained how he and mom had decided to return to the states from Honduras where we lived the past four years. I sat down and didn’t say a word, I needed time to process it. Hours later I returned to my father with a proposal: I can cook, I can clean, I can do laundry, I can take care of myself. After a month in the states my flight headed back to northern Honduras. I was put in a small house with a room and a bathroom in the children’s home run by the hospital where many of my friends were. In the following months my house was a mess, I didn’t have a kitchen, so my diet was purely junk food, basically I kept almost none of my promises. An affair between my dad and one of the nurses was beginning to come to light, but I was not surprised, I had suspected it months prior. It brought down my mental health and my grades. Part of the price of living there was doing chores for the children’s home (I was under the same rules as the other kids) including tutoring a boy from the school. I took on a job at the hospital writing lab numbers into the system to keep me out of my house as much as possible. Our hospital interpreter, a friend of mine, was about to head off to college. One of the doctors began training me in the few days before I visited home, and then again after I returned. He sent me off with some visiting doctors who were struggling with their Spanish, and sometimes I would be their medical student. Tired of living in the mess that was my house, some friends and I decided to thoroughly clean my house. Near the end of our cleaning process, I got a call from my parents. Apparently, my dad continued his contact with the nurse down the road from me. I can’t lie, it hurt a lot, I hit a point where I realized I couldn’t heal from this if I didn’t let go of my terrible habits, with a nice clean house it was a fresh start, and an important step I took was reaching out to others for help. After taking time and listening to advice, I told my dad I didn’t want contact with him if he was going to continue hurting our family in that way. He attempted to stop his relationship which didn’t work. And once I had taken a few days to process it I began working again. I began working night shifts with doctors and helping some students at the school over the summer, sometimes walking directly from the hospital after being up all night to the school, and then crashing once I got home. As school began, I began working with a visiting nurse. We would do back-to-back-to-back night shifts. Contrary to what my bosses thought, it was beneficial to my grades Whenever we weren’t taking vitals or delivering babies, I was doing statistics or anatomy homework. When I wasn’t doing that, I would chat with the Honduran nurses, doodle, and help out in the hospital kitchen a bit when my shift was over. Eventually my dad made a trip 5 miles from my house, not to see me of course. During these hard times my friend’s grandfather asked me how I could keep a big smile on my face during these rough times, in truth it was not a mask I was putting up, I had found peace. I adapted and learned from my bad habits and mistakes and dealt with these hurdles in a way that wouldn’t set me back from becoming the best person I can be.