2. Every person has a creative side, and it can be expressed in many ways: problem solving, original and innovative thinking, and artistically, to name a few. Describe how you express your creative side.
 

Everything is and can be an art form. The most simple one being a sheet of 8 x 11 inch sheet of paper. Draw on it, fold it into origami, even rip it into shreds if you’d like. So simple yet so captivating, having no bounds to what you can create with a single, thin piece of paper. 

 

Starting in elementary school, I found that my brain zones out while holding a pencil and doodling. All sights and sounds around me would blur and my focus would be pinpointed on the paper, like I was in a trance. I could go for hours, just scribbling, while my mother concerningly yelled at me to stop. 

 

Although I could say I enjoyed art, I wasn’t exactly “good” at it, as per society’s expectations. Especially in human anatomy, it was difficult to properly convey what I depicted and translate it to paper. Every sheet would end up scrapped in the garbage or burned… metaphorically, of course. But holding a pencil and having control over the fine lines gave me peace. There’s no room for any restraint in art and that’s how I strive to be: unconstrained and placing trust in myself. Even if my art works are not exactly up to par, I trust myself to leave room to improve and allow my imagination to soar unshackled. 

 

Not only did I draw on paper, I also expanded my interests to painting and digital art. The genre of art is so broad that there’s so much to explore and I can’t pull myself out of these journeys, as there’s something new to explore with every artwork. Every new painting and every new art piece comes with an experience and an adventure, allowing me to lean back and admire a finished canvas that was designed right from my own creativity and dedication. And it’s from these very journeys and experiences that I am able to embrace the diversity in art and approach the world with a colorful perspective.