March 20th, my mom received a lone call. That call triggered events that no one would’ve ever expected. Tears, Hatred, fights, and lies but, overall it created distance. Distance from people you once thought were safe spaces… John Reynolds had passed. Just like that my uncle was gone. His addiction had won. We all thought he had escaped, but the reality was he never escaped; He had struggled with addiction his entire life but it had finally consumed him. The addiction he struggled with just got better at blending in! Blending itself into my life and his. I see this, I see this more clearly than anything else. He was a mirror image of my future, he was what I wanted to be. Funny, witty, adaptive and smart. He traversed this world with comfort. I admire that, Finding complete comfort in your situation isn’t easy, it feels and seems impossible but he pulled it off..  Afterwards all I felt was regret. I didn’t love him enough. I didn’t have small moments with him. Those moments are what I long for. I wonder what it’s like to look back and not be consumed by pain. I’ll never know.. This was hard for me to cope with because I was very sheltered growing up. I didn’t have huge significant figures in my life. However he was one of them, and suddenly being gone made me scramble. His death affected me deeply, in ways I would’ve never expected, First I felt hopeless and hollow.. I couldn’t understand why my love wasn't enough to keep him alive. I refused to accept his death, it was all too much. How was I supposed to maintain composure when my uncle was gone? I quickly got tired of hearing “sorry for your loss” . Those words made my face transform with ire. Saying sorry wasn’t gonna bring him back and that's all I wanted. Was my uncle back, because this time I'd try harder to be there for him. I’d put in more time and effort and make sure to make him laugh and smile. Grief and feeling like my love wasn't enough showed me that.. It’s never too late to become the person I want to be, however becoming that person wasn’t easy. Finding confidence in a dark place wasn’t easy, I had to start off slowly by making sure I spoke up for myself. I did this to reassure myself that I had a voice and my words were/are just as valid as the next person. It helped me find my confidence. However confidence is more than speaking up. I later learned to start dressing for myself, I needed to feel beautiful again and although subtle it helped to start teaching myself to live for me. It was a long road, I did however eventually notice myself changing. Changing into the woman that I day dreamed about. I had a voice, a beautiful one. I dressed to impress myself, I started working and finding different ways to become independent. All while maintaining school, it made me feel like this were finally starting to improveIt's important to me to live life like it's worth living, because we never know when it will be taken away.This has opened my eyes to the bigger picture. I want to be proud of myself, and become someone my sisters are inspired by. I have the personality and brains. Now I’m pursuing a higher form of education, whether it be a university or a community college, I’ll become the woman I need to be. Time is an illusion, and so is death. Despite this, these things impact us as humans every single day. It's hard. It comes and goes in waves. But the sun comes up tomorrow, no matter what happens today. My uncle John and I are separated for now, but he inspires me every day to move forward, keep trying, and be better than the me I was yesterday.