The clock strikes 12, new week rolls in,  and I am sound asleep. 6 days of school , each day bringing sadness in me. 

 

I have no idea how people manage to wake up at 5 in the morning to go to school with a smile plastered on their faces . Listening to music with lights turned off is one of the reasons why l love staying up at night ; it's peaceful and there is nothing to disturb your sleep. This also explains my morning fatigue every day. 

 

 

 

            As the week goes along , each day reveals a significant aspect of my personality. 

 

Sunday: My favorite day of the week because I finally get my full 10 hours of sleep and afternoons of serenity.

 During these times, I discovered my love for reading when I randomly downloaded "It ends with us" by Colleen Hoover  and read it all afternoon. In the evenings, I also enjoy going out with my family and having the nicest meal. Sundays, unfortunately, don't last forever. 

 

Monday: It would without a doubt win the title of worst day of the week .The overwhelming amount of work only adds pressure and stress. It makes me extremely unhappy because it follows a day of enjoyment and my thoughts are still confined to the weekend. However, when the internet wasn't fast enough, I learned to be patient . Not only that, but the massive amount of work has taught me to be a hardworking person and enabled me to work under pressure.

 

Tuesday: I enjoy relating forensics to medicine. On a typical night, I constantly find myself learning about crime, by watching “Bailey Sarian” on youtube  and sometimes learning about how victims died . Elisa Lam’s case has so far been the most intriguing and intimidating to me. By doing all these in my free time , that's when I realized that I aspired to be a forensic pathologist.

 

Wednesday : They say “Meditation and concentration are the way to a life of serenity.” Every Wednesday, I make sure to set out at least 10 minutes to meditate while listening to the calming sounds of the ocean waves. Sometimes meditating in my room can be challenging because I usually get interrupted by my parents talking in the next room  or my sister playing music. To avoid this, I go outside to the garden to meditate when it's quiet. With the aid of meditation , my mental health has been greatly improved and I was  able to conquer my anxiety while talking to people. 

 

Thursday : I like to go grocery shopping with Mom in the evenings, or if we have the day off, we always go to malls and have fun until night. Eat out, watch a movie and buy the essentials. Being petty people, we frequently argue over insignificant issues, usually over food. The way we talk and laugh makes it seem as though she is my best friend rather than a strict mom. Spending time with mom has really strengthened our bond.

 

Friday: I always dedicate this day to entertainment and creativity. I've always enjoyed dancing; It helps me to relieve stress. Learning K-pop choreographies is something I enjoy doing.  Aside from that, I like painting at night while listening to soothing music and drawing inspiration from Pinterest. Fridays are wonderful.

 

Saturday:  I usually have a lot of spare time. In the morning, I often study in the library. Then, I spent a tremendous amount of time watching Master Chef, which piqued my interest in cooking and made me want to get better at it. Nowadays, whenever I have time, I always learn new recipes from YouTube. Baking with Mom and preparing dinner with Dad is the best part.