Beyond what has already been shared in your application, what do you believe makes you stand out as a strong candidate for admission to the University of California?

 

“Don’t turn into one of em liberals!”, was one of the last things my classmates told me before relocating halfway across the country. At the time I didn't even know what liberals were and looking it up made it even more confusing so I tried searching for the answer within my new community. Living in East Side San Jose helped me discover the racial diversity that my community had to offer; I started to question what was so negative about the people here that my South Carolinian friends feared. These so-called “liberals” treated me like family, introduced me to their diverse cultures, and welcomed me with open arms unlike the people from my hometown, who never treated me as one of their own. For the first time, I was able to share how my family made it to America and my peers would share theirs without any shame or embarrassment.   

The encounters I've had with friends in my community made me realize that it wasn't about whether you are a liberal or conservative, but rather it showed how people lack understanding for one another. No one in my hometown ever bothered to explore my differences or most importantly, embrace them. In contrast, I've learned so much about others’ traditions and why each individual is culturally different from the techniques they use to cook the food they eat, to the different holidays they celebrated which are not nationally acknowledged. My experiences have made me see two sides of the same coin in regard to how people of different ethnic backgrounds are treated in disparate cultural environments.  

I finally understood why my hometown peers left me with such a peculiar, but conflicting message; why they branded individuals who they themselves couldn't understand. They labeled those who are more open-minded, more inclusive, and most importantly, more empathetic, which I realize, is how I want to strive to be. I desire to be the familiar face that anyone can come talk to and I want to be the ear that listens to everyone’s unique story and upbringing no matter what part of the world they are from.