Every person has a creative side, and it can be expressed in many ways: problem solving, original and innovative thinking, and artistically, to name a few. Describe how you express your creative side

 

Recess, a place I once thought was simply pastime…instead became a highlight of my inner curiosities and allowed for the basis of my imaginative aspirations. From the games I would invent to galvanize the faces on my friends, to the costumes I fabricated to bring my dreams closer to a reality. I desperately wanted to share my inner artistic workings into the world. 

 

On a typical Saturday you’d find me taking up the entire living room designing decorations or making board games for parties and events, inviting just about anyone who shared my common interests. Even if my art of choice was deemed odd and outlandish by other students' parents, I didn't care…because I wanted them to be jealous, to be amazed, and to stand in utter disbelief of what I had laid out before them. Being a regular kid became something of a nuisance to me, I sought all I could to be different and to stand out, since after all it's the weird people who shape and advance society.

 

Stopping just there would be disheartening, thus I explored extending my reach into the field of technology. At an early age I could type a storm and work my way around a computer like no other, helping teachers with their appliances and assisting my parents with technical issues. I picked up programming on a website called “Scratch”, self-teaching myself block-based coding and animating. This was my true renaissance moment…not only was I having a boatload of fun, but I was also building myself quite an online community filled with other like-minded individuals. Even meeting up with them in real life, visiting the local library where we all attended game camp to make project together using our own assets and characters 

 

“What could any of this amount to, how is any of this stuff useful for a successful future?” are questions I pondered for the longest time. You see little me, a spark doesn't start in those ignited, it starts in those yet to be lit. Waiting for the opportunity to find my flames I forgot I was already on course to set a fire of my own design. Now that I can look back on everything I've done I can see how my creativity manifested into who I am today and what I aspire to be.