Tell us your story. What unique opportunities or challenges have you experienced throughout your high school career that have shaped who you are today? (500-700 words)

 

The Tagalog word, “Malasakit”, means to care for someone extensively. However, I never understood its true meaning. I struggled with defining and receiving such an important value. I failed to become someone worthy of Malasakit. 

 

Entering my freshman year of highschool, my mother had been recovering from her fight with breast cancer. Chemotherapy turned her bed ridden, and her mental state drove her into solitude. Her absences became bearable, but the lack of a motherly figure during my most important years became evident. Hands that were meant to embrace transformed into fists clenched of anger. Words seeking to invoke affection transformed into darts aimed at my heart. Warmth that pursues comfort altered into a violent frostbite. What was once happiness to come home to a proud mother, is now happiness to come home to no mother. Guilt had overridden me. I was left helpless, confined to this version of a mother. But what could I do? I only have one mother. 

 

Looking back, I felt hypocritical. As much as I resented her actions, was I fit to be her son? I embraced the happiness of staying up late to play with friends during my mothers long and exhausting night shifts. I embraced the shoe rack empty of her beat up shoes. I hated myself for finding happiness in her absence. 

 

During my sophomore year, my attitude towards my mother changed. She was at the peak of her recovery, and her pre-cancer life was reunified. This new version of my mother made me realize what I once held a blind eye to: her constant efforts in learning to cook my favorite foods despite her sick arm, her constant efforts to do my laundry, her well researched interests in my hobbies, and her increased screen time on Duolingo to learn English. My mother was just like any other normal person. In the midst of the negative thoughts that flooded my mind, it was easy to disregard her actions of love. But, it was easier to single out the one thing that I thought had defined her. Her illness. When I face my mothers illness, I face a vessel empty of a motherly figure. When I face my mother, I face everything that makes her humane. 

 

Through experiences with my mother, my perspective of the world narrowed. But, I no longer overlook the inherent beauty in the world, tainted by a dull gray. The rude, sterned face janitor yelling at me at the lunch line may be working through his retirement to send his sons and daughters to college. Or even the single mother with ragged clothes may be sacrificing her own wants for her children. My outlook may be limited, but I strive to widen my view of these complex people and their lives. No one or thing can be understood entirely, but I will try, storing away any assumptions, biases, or judgements to view the bigger picture. 

 

I’ve witnessed the imperfections in my mother, but parallel to that, I’ve realized my own. The feelings of guilt that overwhelmed me, I learned to embrace. I learned to accept my mistakes and misconceptions of the reality around me without shame. I learned not to be embarrassed by mistakes, but to hold those mistakes as a reminder of who I am actively trying to improve. If I don't understand myself, I would never understand others. 

 

I may have failed to display Malasakit to my mother, but her display of love and affection towards me defined Malasakit, a value I held unknown. Malasakit may exist in the sphere of my family, but I aspire to teach others and the world of such an important value. It’s hard to admit that I was ashamed of being my mother’s son, but I can easily say that being her son taught me to look forward with an open mind.