My life experiences piqued my interest in psychology. The explosion of Beirut Port, political unrest, and rumors of a potential war all occurred in Lebanon in the same year. My initial response was to seek safety and further my education in the United States. However, I left my father in Lebanon in such a precarious state, unsure of where we would both end up. This sudden separation caused me considerable anxiety and stress.
I began reading online articles from "Psychology
Today" and the book "Rewire Your Anxious Brain" to investigate my mental state. All of this introduced me to the concept of a growth mindset: anxiety is caused by our negative perception of life challenges/stressors and can be addressed by altering that perception. After applying the concept of growth mindset to myself and thinking about my challenge as an opportunity, I began to have a more optimistic outlook on life and rewarded my challenge as the first road towards success.
This prompted me to reevaluate my situation and decide to major in psychology to gain a deeper understanding of myself. In my Social Psychology and Biological Psychology classes, I confirmed in greater detail and from a physiological perspective how the perception of stressors alters the brain's biochemistry. Seeing my relocation as an opportunity to learn energized me. I began reading psychology as a hobby; whenever I feel anxious or concerned, I turn to psychology to feel more optimistic. A drive full of diligent, hard work and passion towards psychology has steered me to the right direction in the face of adversity.
As a community college psychology tutor, I encouraged my students to use psychology as a tool for self-reflection. After seeing how much my students enjoyed discussing psychological topics like motivation and stress, I began to enjoy explaining them as well. My long-term goal is to obtain a Ph.D. in psychology and have the opportunity to inspire future students about the value of understanding psychology. Furthermore, I hope to publish psychological articles in the future and promote the value of learning psychology.