Describe an example of your leadership experience in which you have positively influenced others, helped resolve disputes, or contributed to group efforts over time.

During my time in Boy Scouts, I was never a leader.

For my Eagle project, I would provide two chess tables with 3D-printed chess and checker pieces to my local community center. It was my first time having a leadership role in my Troop. I assembled a group to build the chess tables and the pieces.

At first, everything went smoothly. My neighbor Walter cut out the pieces from the planks we provided, and my dad and I built the tables. My fellow Scoutmate, Jack, designed the chess and checker pieces and 3D-printed them.

Soon enough, there were a few obstacles. 

Jack's 3D printer broke; he couldn't provide all the chess and checker pieces. Walter's saw was too big to cut the wood planks into the part needed for the chessboard (the squares and board).

My dad thought about cutting corners to finish the project since so much was going wrong. 

However, things got better. 

My mom bought a 3D printer, so I assigned my brother to 3D print the chess and checker pieces. My dad found a smaller saw in our shed, so he used it to cut out the squares and parts for the chess boards. We glued them together and drilled the chess boards onto the tables.

Finally, I sent an email to my Troop, asking for volunteers for my Eagle project. Two Scouts volunteered, Jack and another Scout, Ryan, so my parents and I cleaned up our garage, set up the 3D printer, and pulled out the tables.

The project was almost complete.

When the weekend came, Jack and Ryan showed up. I assigned my dad and Ryan to apply the polyurethane to protect the tables, and Jack and I would finish 3D printing and bag all the pieces. We completed the tables, chess, and checker pieces and gave them to the community center. 

When I saw a how-to for a similar table, it said it would take two days to make.

It took us three months.

But because I got out of my comfort zone to lead an Eagle project, I achieved my Eagle Scout.