June 9th, 2018. The day I graduated 8th grade my family fell apart. My father’s weekly tirades against my mother had become violent and harder for me to ignore. Being awoken out of my sleep by unintelligible bickering reverberating through the house, I felt like an intruder in my own home. The rest of that summer was cold and anxiety characterized my freshman year of high school. Unable to share or forget the details of my home environment with the unfamiliar community, I became a recluse with no real identity.

Despite the powerlessness I faced from my parents at home, I found power through writing. laying awake paralyzed by one of their screaming matches; I was unable to cry for the umpteenth time. I instead took out a piece of paper and emptied the contents of my mind onto the sheet; shielding me from the conflict, like paper beating rock. Substituting tears and tissues for notebooks and pencils, I began to douse pages with emotion daily. Confusion and frustration were translated into horror stories, poems, comic books, essays, scripts, and novels. I retreated into my words, finding profound escapism and solace in being able to express myself through characters. Escaping into infnitely enchanting worlds of my own creation, provided me with an effective coping mechanism to avoid the war being waged in my home.

In my Sophomore year, writing became even more useful in my daily life. Making my thoughts and emotions tangible through journaling allowed me to judge myself from the perspective of an outsider upon review. It made me feel real. Throughout my days I constantly looked back at my Journal to observe patterns in my thought process, emotional triggers, and habitual mistakes in hindsight making corrections as needed. Having a physical representation of myself allowed me to recognize and achieve my life goals in a more intentional way. Being able to prove that my days are better if I run track, by reading my journals, is what kept me involved in the sport. Documenting my humanity makes it easy for me to prove things about myself to myself, allowing me to act with certainty.

The clarity journaling brings to my life frees me from social anxiety allowing me to become an active member of my school community. I recognized the ability to heal myself through writing was a gift to be shared with others and took on many leadership roles at school throughout my junior and senior years. In organizing and leading freshman classes on journaling as a Peer Counselor, I teach young men how to heal themselves from things they don’t feel safe enough to share. Leading group discussions on several Holy Cross Spes Unica retreats allowed me to inspire others by sharing my personal journal entries. A leader of my school's BRO (Brothers Reaching Others) club, I share comic books I’ve written and illustrated with friends. Committing to the communities I interact with, and making them stronger, would have been impossible for me without the awareness journaling and writing have provided.

It is up to us to make the most out of our suffering. Healing myself from emotional scars through writing helped me understand what I have to offer to my community: empathy, creativity, and the self-awareness to know when to apply those things. What we use to keep ourselves warm during the cold summers are the most valuable resources we share. I survive by extracting lessons from the entries of my life and documenting them, hoping to inspire the hearts and minds of everyone I encounter.

 

As my interest in computer science has grown, I now understand it is a field of constant curiosity. Above seedy tech companies or a high school computer competition, my interest began with child-like wonder with the tantamount of information at our fingertips; and it will continue to grow with the same vigor as I embrace myself in its versatility, problem-solving, and the impact it can have for the years to come.