“Intelligence isn’t attractive on a woman..”

Said my tech-obsessed now ex-boyfriend laying on his bed from the other side of the room on the other end of my FaceTime call as I was doing my work for my IT Security class that he was helping me on.

Ding! “You shouldn’t go into computer science. Go into something better suited for a female, like psychology”

Ding! “You would probably give up after learning print(“hello world”);”

Was a series of texts he had written to me while we were together.

“I am thinking of pursuing computer science, I feel like it’s a degree that would suit me and my interests well.”

“Computer science, are you sure? That’s a field better for guys”

Was something that my dad had said to me as we were on the drive from school to the doctor’s office.

All my life, there have been men that discredited my abilities and how well I would perform in STEM for one reason. Because I’m a girl.

They are stuck in their childhood beliefs, where they believe there are certain jobs that are just suited for women and certain jobs that are just suited for men, clinging on to their old backwards mindset of gender roles for dear life.

But I am stuck in my childhood beliefs. 

Ever since I was young, I had a passion for programming. When I was 8, I was introduced to ROBLOX, an online multiplayer cross-platform game by my cousin. I was instantly hooked. After school I had went to my desk, held down the power button on my desktop computer turning my computer on, going on to google, typing up “http://www.roblox.com ”, logged into my account, clicked my favorite game–Ripull’s Minigames–pressed join and gamed away for hours on end. 

Soon enough, I discovered that users could create their own games on the platform. Seeing how many popular games there are on ROBLOX’s homepage, I quickly wanted to create my own that would generate the same amount of recognition.

I quickly realized that I need to learn programming as most ROBLOX games are developed by programming with Lua. I had looked up on YouTube “learn Lua for beginners” and scrolled through the seemingly endless tutorials uploaded. However, due to a lack of structure I wasn’t able to stick with learning Lua programming.

Fast forward, sophomore year rolls around and it’s time to select AP classes. I had picked AP Computer Science as one of the AP’s I wanted to study in junior year as it explored my interest in programming at a higher level. Younger me would be so proud at the direction that I’m taking myself in.

In my junior year of high school, I had studied new programming concepts in depth and got myself involved in building numerous projects. Thanks to the structure of being in a classroom environment, I was able to stick through learning how to code using Javascript and quickly began to realize everyone in my life that discouraged me from computer science was wrong. This is what I’m meant to do with my life and this is the direction I’m meant to go.

Now, I hope to go to college to major in computer science, learn how to develop games, and further my interest in programming. I am glad I didn’t listen to the discouraging words of others and instead followed my own heart. A woman can get involved in STEM and become a successful developer and I aspire to become a perfect example of that. 