Click Clack, the sound of the keyboard drew into me as I scanned the scramble of letters in front of me. My father chuckled, as he would guide my young fingers to type “monkey”. Suddenly, I was in awe, as my father guided my hands to scroll through images of monkeys. Something I had only ever previously seen in the zoo. My father explained it was his job to write software comprehensible to the computer. In order to make people such as myself explore the vast reservoirs of information online. He added that the internet was just a tip of the iceberg, and the field of computer science was a limitless field for which one can spend an eternity exploring. Little did my father know that moment would kickstart my passion in computer science for decades to come. Initially my interest in computer science stemmed from the hardware from which it ran. Later, I began getting my feet wet into the software aspect of computer science. The sheer complexity of which has made me aware of the challenges faced in a computer science degree.

 

Being an impressionable young kid, I would often see videos of Youtubers building expensive gaming computers to make videos. This would lead me to not only desire one myself, but also understand the essential aspects of the computer. From the intelligent processor the various tasks necessary for its survival. To the mighty GPU using its horsepower to render pixels onto the screen. To broaden my knowledge of hardware, I would read endless information about hardware and compete in challenges to build the most powerful computer given a certain price budget. Although at first such challenges were entertaining, eventually they became monotonous with NVIDIA, AMD and Intel releasing products once every two years. Coming to the realization that technological advancements in hardware are increasingly dependent on software, I thought to myself: would my interest in computer hardware wane away?

 

Fortunately, I would not let this thought permanently get into my head. Fast forward a few years later, and I've come to understand that hardware and software work seamlessly with one another. I had just built a thousand-dollar computer from scratch, and I was looking for ways to harness its power. Luckily, I had just begun to get my feet wet in modern day software disciplines such as, AI, Crypto, and Software Engineering. It was therefore in my best interest to join the school’s computer club freshman year to find like-minded people interested in such software disciplines. Joining the computer club broadened my understanding of computer science due to meeting unique and diverse perspectives on what people wanted to achieve in the field. As I was elected vice president in the 11th grade, I was able to guide people through the challenges of programming, in which I have become a better teacher, programmer and effective communicator. Finally, participating in competitive programming competitions was perhaps the most engaging experience of the club due to the sheer complexity with which a solution can be answered. As a competitive person, sitting in a room with 30 other students' while attempting to add a last second sorting algorithm can be an exhilarating experience.

 

As my interest in computer science has grown, I now understand it is a field of constant curiosity. Above seedy tech companies or a high school computer competition, my interest began with child-like wonder with the tantamount of information at our fingertips; and it will continue to grow with the same vigor as I embrace myself in its versatility, problem-solving, and the impact it can have for the years to come.