2
Aunt Missy despite a legal, familial relationship. In everyone's mind, including my own, I was family. I
would later learn that a lifelong, emotional connection is irrelevant when viewed through the eyes of
DCFS and family courts.
In 2017, M (10) moved in with her violent mother after learning A.P. was not the biological
father. The police were often called to the home of M and her mother. Three times, prepubescent M was
taken to juvenile detention. Later one of the officers explained that the mother had not "broken any laws",
and incarceration was the "best of the bad choices." Due to these incidents, M was removed from her
home by DCFS. M requested to live with me and was allowed to do so. During the initial placement,
DCFS explained that M's case was heading toward adoption. Quickly, I signed her up for therapy, threw

her a birthday party, and encouraged her to do sports. I started to love her like my child, and my two-year-
old twins adored their sister. My son (3) was hospitalized a year after she moved in. During that stay, M

was removed from my care and placed in a foster home. We were all devastated. I had lost a child, my
sons lost their sister, and M was now navigating the foster system. At one point, M's pediatrician wrote a
statement encouraging M to be allowed to come home. In foster care, her situation was unstable; she
moved from home to home, kept running away, and got in trouble at school.
Seeking a remedy, I sought legal representation. After many consultations, I learned I had no
standing, leaving no way forward. Fueled by righteous indignation for her, I returned to school intending
to become the attorney I had sought to hire. During my first semester, I continued my search for council,
this time for M herself. I found one, but after thousands of dollars, no action had been taken. By then, I
was in the middle of a divorce, and M had found a home with my childhood friend. While the battle for M
is over, my passion for helping children in unsafe and unfair situations at the hands of the system has not.
I am now searching for a career path to advocate for better long-term outcomes. A program like
the Children's Advocacy Clinic could have helped M find the advocate she needed. A model that includes
a child's pediatrician, lawyer, and social worker all working together for their best interest is precisely the
kind of collaborative effort needed when vulnerable children are involved.