As a Roman Catholic, I am very devoted to the Roman Catholic Church and Her hierarchy, sacraments, ceremonies, and churches. I thus expected to find interest in Canon Law, which is the system of rules and ordinances that directs all of them, particularly Canon Law in my favorite period of Church History - the Medieval Era. 

 

So I felt only excitement as I walked into the Busch Student Center at St. Louis University to attend the 16th International Congress of Medieval Canon Law. But that excitement quickly faded to a nervous intimidation. Upon entrance, there were laminated cards with the names of the attendees. Before every name, there was the title "Dr." or "Prof." and below, the institution with which each attendee was affiliated, institutions such as Harvard, Stanford, and Utrecht. My card read only Mr. [name]. With the volunteers' surprised eyes fixed on me, I took my card, walked to the conference room, and sat in a chair in the last row. 

 

For the next five days, I sat in the same spot in theat conference room. and in all others. I spoke to no one, for, with the exception of the few doctorate students, all the men and women were at least two decades my senior with doctorates, whereas I held not even a diploma. But, as somewhat of an introvert, this social isolation, while uncomfortable, was tolerable. The lectures were not. They were dry but also remarkably specific, as they covered subjects like the distinction that an obscure Italian canonist made in the 13th century between the judicial and penitential fora and the reception of latae sententiae excommunication in 12th-century Ireland. Such specificity typically enthralls me, even if I am entirely unfamiliar with the subject. So as I counted the seconds tick by on the clock until each lecture ended, I realized I was not interested in Canon Law. After six days of isolation and disinterestedness, I had learned very little and, worst yet, lost the desire to learn. The conference felt like a failure.

 

Yet it was not a complete failure. There were a few lectures I enjoyed, not because they dealt with Canon Law but because of the subjects that the professors discussed Canon Law in relation to, such as Mary, Scholasticism, and Nihilism. Upon reflection, I realized these subjects and others similar to them often require the same strictness and precision as law but apply them to much more essential inquiries, like the inquiries into metaphysics, ethics, the nature of existence, and the nature of God. The conference, albeit indirectly, made me know that I want to pursue these studies. In the time allotted for lunch each day, I buried myself in John of St. Thomas' work on semiotics. And in the short intervals between lectures, I reviewed Latin vocabulary so that, eventually, I could read the entire Cursus Philosophicus of John of St. Thomas, which is only available in Latin, and many other Thomistic and neo-Thomistic manuals. 

 

But it is not just the Thomists and Neo-Thomists whom I want to study. I hope to read the ancient Greek philosophers, the early Church Fathers, other Medieval Scholastics such as Scotists and Occamists, Humanists, German Idealists, Existentialists, and Nihilists. And I hope to embrace their wisdom, not for the utilitarian benefits it may provide but for the sake of wisdom itself. Such an endeavor may require me to retreat into a cave in some mountains and surround myself with books like a hermit or into a dorm room like a student, but it is certainly preferable to another Canon Law conference.