Describe how you have taken advantage of a significant educational opportunity or worked to overcome an educational barrier you have faced.

The summer before UC San Diego, I took Calculus III at my local community college to fulfill a requirement for my bachelor's degree. However, I also took Linear Algebra, worked on my Eagle Scout and driver's license, and prepared for college. I had other priorities I needed to fulfill during this time, and my grade for this class went off the rails, so I had to drop it.

However, I still needed to take it, so I enrolled in an equivalent class for my first quarter at UC San Diego. This time, I needed to prove I could handle a university-level schedule and overcome the shortcomings of my summer Calculus III class.

Weeks before the midterm, I was cooped up in my dorm, putting all distractions behind me to study for it. I prepared for it alongside two midterms I needed to take two days afterward. I redid every problem in the midterm review and all my previous homework. I scanned all my notes, trying to fit as many concepts, formulas, and practice problems onto my "cheat sheet": a piece of paper the professor let us use during the midterm. I pushed myself to get up early to make it to the midterm review sessions the TAs hosted at 10 in the morning and went to office hours to understand all the concepts better.

When I got to the testing room, I was nervous and fidgety. I was worried that all of the studying I did would not translate to the midterm. However, as soon as I opened the test booklet, I was relieved because the problems were similar to the practice problems. I finished it with 30 minutes left and got an A on that midterm.

This experience proved I could accomplish more if I put in the work for my classes straight from the get-go. The one lesson I learned is that I have to put in that effort straight from the start to do well in anything I pursue. It motivates me to never slack off in anything to prevent having my back against the wall again.