As a black child in America, I was constantly told that because I was African American, I needed to be 10 steps ahead of my peers. I was told that I did not have the privilege of partaking in certain activities as carelessly as others. Ironically, this was told to me by the African American adults in my life as a way of trying to push me to be better and ensure success in my future. As I grew up, I realized what they were saying to be true. I realized that I could not play classical piano and be viewed the same way as my white peers who play the same thing or participate in coding competitions without a bias being placed against me. While these were true, this narrative these adults pushed into me changed my perspective on some things. For a while I felt like I needed to become a lawyer or go to a top school to be seen as remotely successful, not because I necessarily was interested in those things. I saw a lot of things as pointless because it did not instill success into my future. I saw only one path ahead of me and it was linear, no open or branching paths for me to hope for. Just the hope for superficial success. 

I ended up getting lost and confused about the vision for my future because subconsciously, I knew that all my aspirations for my career and what I wanted to do with my life, was due to an ideal a lot of the adults in my life pushed onto me. I realized that I did not want this to shape my future, I wanted to take hold of it. It was then I seriously considered going to school to become a professional pianist since it was already something I was good at. I also considered computer science as I was also knowledgeable in that field. Culinary school spiked my interest as well. Many more possibilities opened up for me rather than just becoming a lawyer to make money.  

I was already taking classical piano lessons from a highly renowned jazz pianist. Therefore, I told him about my consideration of pursuing music in college which he was thrilled about and highly encouraged it. Upon hearing this he helped me hone my skills and knowledge about piano further than ever, which was when my progression and maturity as a pianist would grow exponentially. He saw so much potential and dedication in the way I play, he gifted me his 22-year-old piano. He told me to see this as a sign of my respect, and If I were to ever want to get rid of it, pass it on to someone else you respect enough to give it to. This experience I have had as a pianist gave me new paths to follow and made me realize I can be successful without going into an extremely prestigious profession contrary to what I have been told. I learned that I could earn personal success in doing what I like to do rather than appealing to others. I then applied this same philosophy to computer science. It was something I was already skilled at, but I never considered it a career until now.