What would you say is your greatest talent or skill? How have you developed and demonstrated that talent over time?  

I love losing. I’d happily lose badminton games; more often than not, winning a game is expected, bringing nothing but a momentary sense of satisfaction. Losing, however, provides a nerve-wracking, exciting challenge that reaps humility, experience, and most importantly, motivation to improve. 

In freshman year, my first experience playing badminton was humiliating, being defeated by a friend using his non-dominant hand against three people. My desire to win started there, which quickly became a desire to lose. I joined the school badminton team and showed up to every playing opportunity, barely making it onto the JV team as a reserve player. Then the pandemic struck. Stuck at home with no opportunities to play, I took up unconventional ways to improve. Throughout quarantine, I’d spend hours every day hitting the shuttlecock against the wall. Between classes, I’d consume countless badminton tutorial videos and analyze games while attempting to mimic the movements in my living room. I even consulted online forums and friends for techniques to practice on my makeshift net. When the sophomore year badminton season started, my efforts paid off as I made the varsity team. Nevertheless, I continued to suffer unrelenting defeats against my competitors.

As restrictions were lifted, I went to badminton gyms 1-2 times a week with skilled friends. Defeat after defeat, I began to enjoy them more. Instead of focusing on the outcome, I saw small improvements. With each attack I learned to defend, I noticed my friends needed to try harder. Each technique they used against me I copied and used against them. I grew to cherish and appreciate the opportunity to lose against such amazing players. Finally, in junior year, I made the varsity team that goes on to be undefeated, achieving the titles of DeAnza and Central-Coast-Section Champions. Seeing the fruits of my labor, I sought out losses even more, continually challenging skilled players and entering tough tournaments. I wouldn’t consider badminton to be my most incredible skill, but rather, my infinite desire and capacity for improvement.