Growing up in South Korea, I picked up trash as I was walking with my friends. They could not understand why I would get my hands dirty. I felt a sense of pride in doing my part to clean up the environment. At home, I made sure recyclable bottles were collected separately and gathered leftover food in a compost bin. I was not 100% sure what I wanted to do for a career, but I always maintained interest in the environment and looked for opportunities to explore the field, academically and professionally.

 

After graduating from college, I worked as an Air Quality (AQ) Engineer at EPA. As an AQ Engineer, I reviewed applications from companies to install industrial equipment and calculated whether the equipment met the emission limits and exceeded health risks to nearby residents. As I read compounds in industrial processes to calculate the risks, I was curious about the effects different chemicals had on the human body and paid close attention to potent compounds. Although harmful health effects from air pollution were obvious in theory, it did not feel personal until I witnessed community members directly affected by poor air quality.

 

A couple of years after I began working at EPA, a metal plating company inadvertently released chromium to the atmosphere and appeared before the EPA hearing board to be prosecuted. Although I was not assigned to the facility in question, I was curious about the case and decided to listen in. I witnessed testimonies of residents near the facility, detailing years of being exposed to pollution, not just from the facility but other businesses in the city. They lost friends and neighbors to cancer. Being fortunate enough to have grown up without an environmental disaster, I never experienced the health effects that air pollution can have on an individual and the community. As I watched resident after resident come up to the podium, I began to reflect on my role as an AQ Engineer. I may be able to write a permit to make sure that companies lawfully operate equipment, but I was not able to alleviate those suffering from air pollution. As an employee of EPA, I was advised by my bosses to not talk to the residents at the hearing, as that could create legal issues. I felt helpless that I could not do anything for the residents and I began to realize my limitations as an engineer. At that moment, all I could do was watch the hearing and see exasperated residents’ plea for help to the hearing board. After the hearing, I looked up symptoms of exposure to chromium and possible treatments, but this was all I could do as a layman. I wanted to see if a different profession could do more for the people affected by environmental disaster.

 

I shifted my focus from regulating emission sources to possibly treating those affected by pollution and began to explore whether pursuing environmental medicine was right for me. I started volunteering at the emergency room of Kaiser Permanente on Thursday nights, after my shift with the EPA. I enjoyed interacting with the staff and assisting them in delivering the best patient care possible. Whenever I assisted patients to be discharged and brought them out for their family to pick them up, I felt their relief and was reminded of what the job was for. Most importantly, I was able to see how physicians interact with the patients. I observed physicians calmly explaining to patients what may be the cause of the ailment and what was the best course of action to treat it. For example, a patient with arrythmia came in an ambulance and was immediately seen by the staff. The heart rate was over 180 bpm, and the patient was barely able to talk. Despite the high pressure situation, the doctor made sure to let the patient know what he was doing and explained why the medication to the patient.

 

Having grown up without access to healthcare most of my life in the US, it was eye opening to see how, analogous to an engineer breaking down complex problems, the physicians would explain complex medical information to lay people in an understandable way and work together to develop a solution. My interests and goals aligned. I imagined myself treating those affected by environmental stresses and actually being able to do something about it, unlike my time at EPA. Up to this point in my life, my goals to allow people to lead healthier lives were indirect, such as reducing greenhouse gasses and air pollution. However, I look to directly impact people by treating those affected with environmental illnesses as a physician.

  

While my decision to pursue a career in medicine has not been straightforward, I found a field where I would like to devote my life to: being an environmental medicine physician. Through my work at EPA, I experienced the impact that poor air quality has on not just the individual but also a whole community. The helplessness and frustrations I felt watching the hearing made me realize that engineering is not right for me and that I should pursue a profession that directly treats those affected by environmental stress. My volunteering experience with Kaiser solidified my choice to become a physician. I hope I can become a physician who brings his engineering work experience and knowledge to educate and treat patients.