COACH: Hello, how can I help you with your essay?
STUDENT: Hi, I need help figuring out how to write an essay about financing college.
COACH: Okay, great. Can you tell me a bit more about what you're looking for help with? What kind of essay are you writing?
STUDENT: It's an argumentative essay about how refugees can finance college.
COACH: Interesting! Do you have any specific questions about how refugee students can finance college?
STUDENT: Yeah, I'm not sure how to go about it. Are there scholarships and grants available for them?
COACH: Absolutely! There are many scholarships and grants available for refugee students. For example, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) provides funding for refugees in many countries, including France. There are also other organizations that provide funding for refugees, such as the International Rescue Committee.
In addition to scholarships and grants, there are other ways to finance college. You could take out a loan, which is an option for many students. You could also look into work-study programs or part-time jobs to help cover the cost of college.
Finally, you could look into crowdfunding. This is when you set up an online platform to ask people to donate money towards your college tuition.
STUDENT: Wow, that's really helpful. I didn't realize there were so many options. I'm still not sure how to make my essay interesting though. I don't think I'm very interesting as a person.
COACH: That's totally understandable! It can be difficult to write about yourself. One way to make your essay interesting is to focus on the unique experiences and perspectives that you bring to the table. Think about the experiences that have shaped who you are, and how you can use those experiences to tell a compelling story in your essay. You can also highlight any special skills or talents you have that make you stand out. For example, if you are fluent in multiple languages, you could talk about how this has helped you connect with different cultures and communities.